doc/administration/housekeeping.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Housekeeping **(FREE)**

GitLab supports and automates housekeeping tasks within your current repository,
such as compressing file revisions and removing unreachable objects.

## Automatic housekeeping

GitLab automatically runs `git gc` and `git repack` on repositories
after Git pushes. You can change how often this happens or turn it off in
**Admin Area > Settings > Repository** (`/admin/application_settings/repository`).

## Manual housekeeping

The housekeeping function runs `repack` or `gc` depending on the
**Housekeeping** settings configured in **Admin Area > Settings > Repository**.

For example in the following scenario a `git repack -d` will be executed:

- Project: pushes since GC counter (`pushes_since_gc`) = `10`
- Git GC period = `200`
- Full repack period = `50`

When the `pushes_since_gc` value is 50 a `repack -A -d --pack-kept-objects` runs, similarly when
the `pushes_since_gc` value is 200 a `git gc` runs.

- `git gc` ([man page](https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-gc.html)) runs a number of housekeeping tasks,
  such as compressing file revisions (to reduce disk space and increase performance)
  and removing unreachable objects which may have been created from prior invocations of
  `git add`.
- `git repack` ([man page](https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-repack.html)) re-organize existing packs into a single, more efficient pack.

Housekeeping also [removes unreferenced LFS files](../raketasks/cleanup.md#remove-unreferenced-lfs-files)
from your project on the same schedule as the `git gc` operation, freeing up storage space for your project.

To manually start the housekeeping process:

1. In your project, go to **Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Advanced** section.
1. Select **Run housekeeping**.

## How housekeeping handles pool repositories

Housekeeping for pool repositories is handled differently from standard repositories.
It is ultimately performed by the Gitaly RPC `FetchIntoObjectPool`.

This is the current call stack by which it is invoked:

1. `Repositories::HousekeepingService#execute_gitlab_shell_gc`
1. `Projects::GitGarbageCollectWorker#perform`
1. `Projects::GitDeduplicationService#fetch_from_source`
1. `ObjectPool#fetch`
1. `ObjectPoolService#fetch`
1. `Gitaly::FetchIntoObjectPoolRequest`

To manually invoke it from a Rails console, if needed, you can call `project.pool_repository.object_pool.fetch`.
This is a potentially long-running task, though Gitaly times out in about 8 hours.

WARNING:
Do not run `git prune` or `git gc` in pool repositories! This can
cause data loss in "real" repositories that depend on the pool in
question.

Commit message:

Update administration pages with new admin area access info
GitLab 14.0 includes an interface change that moves the UI
element to access the Admin Area to a new location;
from the top menu bar to within the Menu option on the top
menu bar.

This updates the administration documentation pages that describe
accessing the Admin Area to reflect the new interface change.

doc/administration/housekeeping.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Housekeeping **(FREE)**

GitLab supports and automates housekeeping tasks within your current repository,
such as compressing file revisions and removing unreachable objects.

## Configure housekeeping

GitLab automatically runs `git gc` and `git repack` on repositories
after Git pushes.

You can change how often this happens or turn it off:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > Repository**.
1. Expand **Repository maintenance**.
1. Configure the Housekeeping options.
1. Select **Save changes**.

For example, in the following scenario a `git repack -d` will be executed:

- Project: pushes since GC counter (`pushes_since_gc`) = `10`
- Git GC period = `200`
- Full repack period = `50`

When the `pushes_since_gc` value is 50 a `repack -A -d --pack-kept-objects` runs, similarly when
the `pushes_since_gc` value is 200 a `git gc` runs:

- `git gc` ([man page](https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-gc.html)) runs a number of housekeeping tasks,
  such as compressing file revisions (to reduce disk space and increase performance)
  and removing unreachable objects which may have been created from prior invocations of
  `git add`.
- `git repack` ([man page](https://mirrors.edge.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/git-repack.html)) re-organize existing packs into a single, more efficient pack.

Housekeeping also [removes unreferenced LFS files](../raketasks/cleanup.md#remove-unreferenced-lfs-files)
from your project on the same schedule as the `git gc` operation, freeing up storage space for your project.

## How housekeeping handles pool repositories

Housekeeping for pool repositories is handled differently from standard repositories.
It is ultimately performed by the Gitaly RPC `FetchIntoObjectPool`.

This is the current call stack by which it is invoked:

1. `Repositories::HousekeepingService#execute_gitlab_shell_gc`
1. `Projects::GitGarbageCollectWorker#perform`
1. `Projects::GitDeduplicationService#fetch_from_source`
1. `ObjectPool#fetch`
1. `ObjectPoolService#fetch`
1. `Gitaly::FetchIntoObjectPoolRequest`

To manually invoke it from a Rails console, if needed, you can call `project.pool_repository.object_pool.fetch`.
This is a potentially long-running task, though Gitaly times out in about 8 hours.

WARNING:
Do not run `git prune` or `git gc` in pool repositories! This can
cause data loss in "real" repositories that depend on the pool in
question.
