doc/administration/polling.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Polling configuration **(FREE SELF)**

The GitLab UI polls for updates for different resources (issue notes, issue
titles, pipeline statuses, etc.) on a schedule appropriate to the resource.

In **[Admin Area](../user/admin_area/index.md) > Settings > Preferences > Real-time features**,
you can configure "Polling
interval multiplier". This multiplier is applied to all resources at once,
and decimal values are supported. For the sake of the examples below, we will
say that issue notes poll every 2 seconds, and issue titles poll every 5
seconds; these are _not_ the actual values.

- 1 is the default, and recommended for most installations. (Issue notes poll
  every 2 seconds, and issue titles poll every 5 seconds.)
- 0 disables UI polling completely. (On the next poll, clients stop
  polling for updates.)
- A value greater than 1 slows polling down. If you see issues with
  database load from lots of clients polling for updates, increasing the
  multiplier from 1 can be a good compromise, rather than disabling polling
  completely. (For example: If this is set to 2, then issue notes poll every 4
  seconds, and issue titles poll every 10 seconds.)
- A value between 0 and 1 makes the UI poll more frequently (so updates
  show in other sessions faster), but is **not recommended**. 1 should be
  fast enough. (For example, if this is set to 0.5, then issue notes poll every
  1 second, and issue titles poll every 2.5 seconds.)

Commit message:

Update administration pages with new admin area access info
GitLab 14.0 includes an interface change that moves the UI
element to access the Admin Area to a new location;
from the top menu bar to within the Menu option on the top
menu bar.

This updates the administration documentation pages that describe
accessing the Admin Area to reflect the new interface change.

doc/administration/polling.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Polling configuration **(FREE SELF)**

The GitLab UI polls for updates for different resources (issue notes, issue
titles, pipeline statuses, etc.) on a schedule appropriate to the resource.

To configure the polling interval multiplier:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > Preferences**.
1. Expand **Real-time features**.
1. Set a value for the polling interval multiplier. This multiplier is applied
   to all resources at once, and decimal values are supported:

   - `1.0` is the default, and recommended for most installations.
   - `0` disables UI polling completely. On the next poll, clients stop
     polling for updates.
   - A value greater than `1` slows polling down. If you see issues with
     database load from lots of clients polling for updates, increasing the
     multiplier from 1 can be a good compromise, rather than disabling polling
     completely. For example, if you set the value to `2`, all polling intervals
     are multiplied by 2, which means that polling happens half as frequently.
   - A value between `0` and `1` makes the UI poll more frequently (so updates
     show in other sessions faster), but is **not recommended**. `1` should be
     fast enough.

1. Select **Save changes**.
