**Note:** This file is automatically generated. Please see the [developer
documentation](doc/development/changelog.md) for instructions on adding your own
entry.

## 10.5.3 (2018-03-01)

### Security (1 change)

- Ensure that OTP backup codes are always invalidated.


## 10.5.2 (2018-02-25)

### Fixed (7 changes)

- Fix single digit value clipping for stacked progress bar. !17217
- Fix issue with cache key being empty when variable used as the key. !17260
- Enable Legacy Authorization by default on Cluster creations. !17302
- Allow branch names to be named the same as the sha it points to.
- Fix 500 error when loading an invalid upload URL.
- Don't attempt to update user tracked fields if database is in read-only.
- Prevent MR Widget error when no CI configured.

### Performance (5 changes)

- Improve query performance for snippets dashboard. !17088
- Only check LFS integrity for first ref in a push to avoid timeout. !17098
- Improve query performance of MembersFinder. !17190
- Increase feature flag cache TTL to one hour.
- Improve performance of searching for and autocompleting of users.


## 10.5.1 (2018-02-22)

- No changes.

## 10.5.0 (2018-02-22)

### Security (3 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Update marked from 0.3.6 to 0.3.12. !16480 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Update nokogiri to 1.8.2. !16807
- Add verification for GitLab Pages custom domains.

### Fixed (77 changes, 25 of them are from the community)

- Fix the Projects API with_issues_enabled filter behaving incorrectly any user. !12724 (Jan Christophersen)
- Hide pipeline schedule take ownership for current owner. !12986
- Handle special characters on API request of issuable templates. !15323 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Shows signin tab after new user email confirmation. !16174 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Make project README containers wider on fixed layout. !16181 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Fix dashboard projects nav links height. !16204 (George Tsiolis)
- Fix error on empty query for Members API. !16235
- Issue board: fix for dragging an issue to the very bottom in long lists. !16250 (David Kuri)
- Make rich blob viewer wider for PC. !16262 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Substitute deprecated ui_charcoal with new default ui_indigo. !16271 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Generate HTTP URLs for custom Pages domains when appropriate. !16279
- Make modal dialog common for Groups tree app. !16311
- Allow moving wiki pages from the UI. !16313
- Filter groups and projects dropdowns of search page on backend. !16336
- Adjust layout width for fixed layout. !16337 (George Tsiolis)
- Fix custom header logo design nitpick: Remove unneeded margin on empty logo text. !16383 (Markus Doits)
- File Upload UI can create LFS pointers based on .gitattributes. !16412
- Fix Ctrl+Enter keyboard shortcut saving comment/note edit. !16415
- Fix file search results when they match file contents with a number between two colons. !16462
- Fix tooltip displayed for running manual actions. !16489
- Allow trailing + on labels in board filters. !16490
- Prevent JIRA issue identifier from being humanized. !16491 (Andrew McCallum)
- Add horizontal scroll to wiki tables. !16527 (George Tsiolis)
- Fix a bug calculating artifact size for project statistics. !16539
- Stop loading spinner on error of issuable templates. !16600 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Allows html text in commits atom feed. !16603 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Disable MR check out button when source branch is deleted. !16631 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Fix export removal for hashed-storage projects within a renamed or deleted namespace. !16658
- Default to HTTPS for all Gravatar URLs. !16666
- Login via OAuth now only marks new users as external. !16672
- Fix default avatar icon missing when Gravatar is disabled. !16681 (Felix Geyer)
- Change button group width on mobile. !16726 (George Tsiolis)
- Fix version information not showing on help page if commercial content display was disabled. !16743
- Adds spacing between edit and delete tag btn in tag list. !16757 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Fix 500 error when loading a merge request with an invalid comment. !16795
- Deleting an upload will correctly clean up the filesystem. !16799
- Cleanup new branch/merge request form in issues. !16854
- Fix GitLab import leaving group_id on ProjectLabel. !16877
- Fix forking projects when no restricted visibility levels are defined applicationwide. !16881
- Trigger change event on filename input when file template is applied. !16911 (Sebastian Klingler)
- Fixes different margins between buttons in tag list. !16927 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Close low level rugged repository in project cache worker. !16930 (Bastian Blank)
- Override group sidebar links. !16942 (George Tsiolis)
- Avoid running `PopulateForkNetworksRange`-migration multiple times. !16988
- Resolve PrepareUntrackedUploads PostgreSQL syntax error. !17019
- Fix monaco editor features which were incompatable with GitLab CDN settings. !17021
- Fixed error 500 when removing an identity with synced attributes and visiting the profile page. !17054
- Fix cnacel edit note button reverting changes. !42462
- For issues display time of last edit of title or description instead of time of any attribute change.
- Handle all Psych YAML parser exceptions (fixes #41209).
- Fix validation of environment scope of variables.
- Display user friendly error message if rebase fails.
- Hide new branch and tag links for projects with an empty repo.
- Fix protected branches API to accept name parameter with dot.
- Closes #38540 - Remove .ssh/environment file that now breaks the gitlab:check rake task.
- Keep subscribers when promoting labels to group labels.
- Replace verified badge icons and uniform colors.
- Fix error on changes tab when merge request cannot be created.
- Ignore leading slashes when searching for files within context of repository. (Andrew McCallum)
- Close and do not reload MR diffs when source branch is deleted.
- Bypass commits title markdown on notes.
- Reload MRs memoization after diffs creation.
- Return more consistent values for merge_status on MR APIs.
- Contribution calendar label was cut off. (Branka Martinovic)
- LDAP Person no longer throws exception on invalid entry.
- Fix bug where award emojis would be lost when moving issues between projects.
- Fix not all events being shown in group dashboard.
- Fix JIRA not working when a trailing slash is included.
- Fix squash not working when diff contained non-ASCII data.
- Remove erroneous text in shared runners page that suggested more runners available.
- Execute system hooks after-commit when executing project hooks.
- Makes forking protect default branch on completion.
- Validate user, group and project paths consistently, and only once.
- Validate user namespace before saving so that errors persist on model.
- Permits 'password_authentication_enabled_for_git' parameter for ApplicationSettingsController.
- Fix duplicate item in protected branch/tag dropdown.
- Open visibility level help in a new tab. (Jussi Räsänen)

### Deprecated (1 change)

- Add note within ux documentation that further changes should be made within the design.gitlab project.

### Changed (20 changes, 7 of them are from the community)

- Show coverage to two decimal points in coverage badge. !10083 (Jeff Stubler)
- Update 'removed assignee' note to include old assignee reference. !16301 (Maurizio De Santis)
- Move row containing Projects, Users and Groups count to the top in admin dashboard. !16421
- Add Auto DevOps Domain application setting. !16604
- Changes Revert this merge request text. !16611 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Link Auto DevOps settings to Clusters page. !16641
- Internationalize charts page. !16687 (selrahman)
- Internationalize graph page selrahman. !16688 (Shah El-Rahman)
- Save traces as artifacts. !16702
- Hide variable values on pipeline schedule edit page. !16729
- Update runner info on all authenticated requests. !16756
- Improve issue note dropdown and mr button. !16758 (George Tsiolis)
- Replace "cluster" with "Kubernetes cluster". !16778
- Enable Prometheus metrics for deployed Ingresses. !16866 (joshlambert)
- Rename button to enable CI/CD configuration to "Set up CI/CD". !16870
- Double padding for file-content wiki class on larger screens.
- Improve wording about additional costs for Ingress on custom clusters.
- Last push widget will show banner for new pushes to previously merged branch.
- Save user ID and username in Grape API log (api_json.log).
- Include subgroup issues and merge requests on the group page.

### Performance (14 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Fix double query execution on groups page. !16314
- Speed up loading merged merge requests when they contained a lot of commits before merging. !16320
- Properly memoize some predicate methods. !16329
- Reduce the number of Prometheus metrics. !16443
- Only highlight search results under the highlighting size limit. !16462
- Add fast-blank. !16468
- Move BoardList vue component to vue file. !16888 (George Tsiolis)
- Fix N+1 query problem for snippets dashboard. !16944
- Optimize search queries on the search page by setting a limit for matching records.
- Store number of commits in merge_request_diffs table.
- Improve performance of target branch dropdown.
- Remove duplicate calls of MergeRequest#can_be_reverted?.
- Stop checking if discussions are in a mergeable state if the MR isn't.
- Remove N+1 queries with /projects/:project_id/{access_requests,members} API endpoints.

### Added (28 changes, 10 of them are from the community)

- Add link on commit page to merge request that introduced that commit. !13713 (Hiroyuki Sato)
- System hooks for Merge Requests. !14387 (Alexis Reigel)
- Add `pipelines` endpoint to merge requests API. !15454 (Tony Rom <thetonyrom@gmail.com>)
- Adds Rubocop rule for line break around conditionals. !15739 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Add Colors to GitLab Flavored Markdown. !16095 (Tony Rom <thetonyrom@gmail.com>)
- Initial work to add notification reason to emails. !16160 (Mario de la Ossa)
- Implement multi server support and use kube proxy to connect to Prometheus servers inside K8S cluster. !16182
- Add ability to transfer a group into another group. !16302
- Add blue dot feature highlight to make GKE Clusters more visible to users. !16379
- Add section headers to plus button dropdown. !16394 (George Tsiolis)
- Support PostgreSQL 10. !16471
- Enables Project Milestone Deletion via the API. !16478 (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Add realtime ci status for the repository -> files view. !16523
- User can now git push to create a new project. !16547
- Improve empty project overview. !16617 (George Tsiolis)
- Added uploader metadata to the uploads. !16779
- Added ldap config setting to lower case the username. !16791
- Add search support into the API. !16878
- Backport of LFS File Locking API. !16935
- Add a link to documentation on how to get external ip in the Kubernetes cluster details page. !16937
- Add sorting options for /users API (admin only). !16945
- Adds sorting to deployments API. (Jacopo Beschi @jacopo-beschi)
- Add rake task to check integrity of uploaded files.
- Add backend for persistently dismissably callouts.
- Track and act upon the number of executed queries.
- Add a gRPC health check to ensure Gitaly is up.
- Log and send a system hook if a blocked user attempts to login.
- Add Gitaly Servers admin dashboard.

### Other (26 changes, 7 of them are from the community)

- Activated the Web IDE Button also on the main project page. !4250
- Updated the katex library. !15864
- Add modal for deleting a milestone. !16229
- Remove unused CSS selectors for Cycle Analytics. !16270 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Add reason to keep postgresql 9.2 for CI. !16277 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Adjust modal style to new design. !16310
- Default to Gitaly for 'git push' HTTP/SSH, and make Gitaly mandatory for SSH pull. !16586
- Set timezone for karma to UTC. !16602 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Make Gitaly RepositoryExists opt-out. !16680
- Update minimum git version to 2.9.5. !16683
- Disable throwOnError in KaTeX to reveal user where is the problem. !16684 (Jakub Jirutka)
- fix documentation about node version. !16720 (Tobias Gurtzick)
- Enable RuboCop Style/RegexpLiteral. !16752 (Takuya Noguchi)
- Add confirmation-input component. !16816
- Add unique constraint to trending_projects#project_id. !16846
- Add foreign key and NOT NULL constraints to todos table. !16849
- Include branch in mobile view for pipelines. !16910 (George Tsiolis)
- Downgrade google-protobuf gem. !16941
- Refactors mr widget components into vue files and adds i18n.
- increase-readability-of-colored-text-in-job-output-log.
- Finish any remaining jobs for issues.closed_at.
- Translate issuable sidebar.
- Set standard disabled state for all buttons.
- Upgrade GitLab Workhorse to v3.6.0.
- Improve readability of underlined links for dyslexic users.
- Adds empty state illustration for pending job.
