doc/user/project/issues/related_issues.md, before:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Related issues **(FREE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/1797) in [GitLab Starter](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 9.4.
> - The simple "relates to" relationship [moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/212329) to [GitLab Free](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) in 13.4.

Related issues are a bi-directional relationship between any two issues
and appear in a block below the issue description. Issues can be across groups
and projects.

You can set any issue as:

- Related to another issue
- Blocking another issue **(STARTER)**
- Blocked by another issue **(STARTER)**

The relationship only shows up in the UI if the user can see both issues.

When you try to close an issue that has open blockers, a warning is displayed.

NOTE:
To manage related issues through our API, visit the [issue links API documentation](../../../api/issue_links.md).

## Adding a related issue

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/2035) in [GitLab Starter](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.8.
> - [Improved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/34239) to warn when attempting to close an issue that is blocked by others in [GitLab Starter](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.0.
>   When you try to close an issue with open blockers, you see a warning that you can dismiss.

1. Relate one issue to another by clicking the related issues "+" button
in the header of the related issue block.

1. Input the issue reference number or paste in the full URL of the issue.

1. **(STARTER)** Select whether the current issue relates to, blocks, or is blocked by the issues being entered.

    ![Adding a related issue](img/related_issues_add_v12_8.png)

    Issues of the same project can be specified just by the reference number.
    Issues from a different project require additional information like the
    group and the project name. For example:

    - same project: `#44`
    - same group: `project#44`
    - different group: `group/project#44`

    Valid references are added to a temporary list that you can review.

1. When you have added all the related issues, click **Add** to submit.

When you have finished adding all related issues, you can see
them categorized so their relationships can be better understood visually.

![Related issue block](img/related_issue_block_v12_8.png)

## Removing a related issue

In the related issues block, click the "x" icon on the right-side of each issue
token that you wish to remove.

Due to the bi-directional relationship, it no longer appears in either issue.

![Removing a related issue](img/related_issues_remove_v12_8.png)

Please access our [permissions](../../permissions.md) page for more information.

Commit message:

Remove Starter references from Related issues page

doc/user/project/issues/related_issues.md, after:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Related issues **(FREE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/1797) in GitLab 9.4.
> - The simple "relates to" relationship [moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/212329) to [GitLab Free](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) in 13.4.

Related issues are a bi-directional relationship between any two issues
and appear in a block below the issue description. Issues can be across groups
and projects.

You can set any issue as:

- Related to another issue
- Blocking another issue **(PREMIUM)**
- Blocked by another issue **(PREMIUM)**

The relationship only shows up in the UI if the user can see both issues.

When you try to close an issue that has open blockers, a warning is displayed.

NOTE:
To manage related issues through our API, visit the [issue links API documentation](../../../api/issue_links.md).

## Adding a related issue

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/2035) in GitLab 12.8.
> - [Improved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/34239) to warn when attempting to close an issue that is blocked by others in GitLab 13.0.
>   When you try to close an issue with open blockers, you see a warning that you can dismiss.

1. Relate one issue to another by clicking the related issues "+" button
in the header of the related issue block.

1. Select the relationship the between the two issues. Either:
   - **relates to**.
   - **blocks**. **(PREMIUM)**
   - **is blocked by**. **(PREMIUM)**
1. Input the issue reference number or paste in the full URL of the issue.

   ![Adding a related issue](img/related_issues_add_v12_8.png)

   Issues of the same project can be specified just by the reference number.
   Issues from a different project require additional information like the
   group and the project name. For example:

   - The same project: `#44`
   - The same group: `project#44`
   - Different group: `group/project#44`

   Valid references are added to a temporary list that you can review.

1. When you have added all the related issues, click **Add** to submit.

When you have finished adding all related issues, you can see
them categorized so their relationships can be better understood visually.

![Related issue block](img/related_issue_block_v12_8.png)

## Removing a related issue

In the related issues block, click the remove button (**{close}**) on the right-side of each issue
token that you wish to remove.

Due to the bi-directional relationship, it no longer appears in either issue.

![Removing a related issue](img/related_issues_remove_v12_8.png)

Please access our [permissions](../../permissions.md) page for more information.
