doc/user/group/epics/index.md, before:

---
type: reference, howto
---

# Epics **(ULTIMATE)**

> Introduced in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.2.

Epics let you manage your portfolio of projects more efficiently and with less
effort by tracking groups of issues that share a theme, across projects and
milestones.

![epics list view](img/epics_list_view_v12.5.png)

## Use cases

- Suppose your team is working on a large feature that involves multiple discussions throughout different issues created in distinct projects within a [Group](../index.md). With Epics, you can track all the related activities that together contribute to that single feature.
- Track when the work for the group of issues is targeted to begin, and when it is targeted to end.
- Discuss and collaborate on feature ideas and scope at a high level.

## Creating an epic

A paginated list of epics is available in each group from where you can create
a new epic. The list of epics includes also epics from all subgroups of the
selected group. From your group page:

1. Go to **Epics**.
1. Click **New epic**.
1. Enter a descriptive title and click **Create epic**.

You will be taken to the new epic where can edit the following details:

- Title
- Description
- Start date
- Due date
- Labels

An epic's page contains the following tabs:

- **Epics and Issues**: epics and issues added to this epic. Child epics, and their issues, are shown in a tree view.
  - Click on the <kbd>></kbd> beside a parent epic to reveal the child epics and issues.
- **Roadmap**: a roadmap view of child epics which have start and due dates.

![epic view](img/epic_view_v12.3.png)

## Adding an issue to an epic

Any issue that belongs to a project in the epic's group, or any of the epic's
subgroups, are eligible to be added.  New issues appear at the top of the list of issues in the **Epics and Issues** tab.

An epic contains a list of issues and an issue can be associated with at most
one epic. When you add an issue that is already linked to an epic,
the issue is automatically unlinked from its current parent.

To add an issue to an epic:

1. Click **Add an issue**.
1. Identify the issue to be added, using either of the following methods:
   - Paste the link of the issue.
   - Search for the desired issue by entering part of the issue's title, then selecting the desired match. ([From GitLab 12.5](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9126))

   If there are multiple issues to be added, press <kbd>Spacebar</kbd> and repeat this step.
1. Click **Add**.

To remove an issue from an epic:

1. Click on the <kbd>x</kbd> button in the epic's issue list.
1. Click **Remove** in the **Remove issue** warning message.

## Multi-level child epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/8333) in GitLab Ultimate 11.7.

Any epic that belongs to a group, or subgroup of the parent epic's group, is
eligible to be added. New child epics appear at the top of the list of epics in the **Epics and Issues** tab.

When you add an epic that is already linked to a parent epic, the link to its current parent is removed.

An epic can have multiple child epics with
the maximum depth being 5.

To add a child epic to an epic:

1. Click **Add an epic**.
1. Identify the epic to be added, using either of the following methods:
   - Paste the link of the epic.
   - Search for the desired issue by entering part of the epic's title, then selecting the desired match. ([From GitLab 12.5](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9126))

   If there are multiple epics to be added, press <kbd>Spacebar</kbd> and repeat this step.
1. Click **Add**.

To remove a child epic from a parent epic:

1. Click on the <kbd>x</kbd> button in the parent epic's list of epics.
1. Click **Remove** in the **Remove epic** warning message.

## Start date and due date

To set a **Start date** and **Due date** for an epic, select one of the following:

- **Fixed**: Enter a fixed value.
- **From milestones**: Inherit a dynamic value from the issues added to the epic.
- **Inherited**: Inherit a dynamic value from the issues added to the epic. ([Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7332) in GitLab 12.5 to replace **From milestones**).

### Milestones

If you select **From milestones** for the start date, GitLab will automatically set the date to be earliest
start date across all milestones that are currently assigned to the issues that are added to the epic.
Similarly, if you select **From milestones** for the due date, GitLab will set it to be the latest due date across
all milestones that are currently assigned to those issues.

These are dynamic dates which are recalculated if any of the following occur:

- Milestones are re-assigned to the issues.
- Milestone dates change.
- Issues are added or removed from the epic.

### Inherited

If you select **Inherited** for the start date, GitLab will scan all child epics and issues assigned to the epic,
and will set the start date to match the earliest found start date or milestone. Similarly, if you select
**Inherited** for the due date, GitLab will set the due date to match the latest due date or milestone
found among its child epics and issues.

These are dynamic dates and recalculated if any of the following occur:

- A child epic's dates change.
- Milestones are reassigned to an issue.
- A milestone's dates change.
- Issues are added to, or removed from, the epic.

Because the epic's dates can inherit dates from its children, the start date and due date propagate from the bottom to the top.
If the start date of a child epic on the lowest level changes, that becomes the earliest possible start date for its parent epic,
then the parent epic's start date will reflect the change and this will propagate upwards to the top epic.

## Roadmap in epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7327) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.10.

If your epic contains one or more [child epics](#multi-level-child-epics) which
have a [start or due date](#start-date-and-due-date), a
[roadmap](../roadmap/index.md) view of the child epics is listed under the parent epic.

![Child epics roadmap](img/epic_view_roadmap_v12.3.png)

## Reordering issues and child epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9367) in GitLab 12.5.

New issues and child epics are added to the top of their respective lists in the **Epics and Issues** tab. You can reorder the list of issues and the list of child epics. Issues and child epics cannot be intermingled.

To reorder issues assigned to an epic:

1. Go to the **Epics and Issues** tab.
1. Drag and drop issues into the desired order.

To reorder child epics assigned to an epic:

1. Go to the **Epics and Issues** tab.
1. Drag and drop epics into the desired order.

## Updating epics

### Using bulk editing

To apply labels across multiple epics:

1. Go to the Epics list.
1. Click **Edit epics**.
    - Checkboxes will appear beside each epic.
    - A sidebar on the right-hand side will appear, with an editable field for labels.
1. Check the checkbox beside each epic to be edited.
1. Select the desired labels.
1. Click **Update all**.

![bulk editing](img/bulk_editing.png)

## Deleting an epic

NOTE: **Note:**
To delete an epic, you need to be an [Owner](../../permissions.md#group-members-permissions) of a group/subgroup.

When inside a single epic view, click the **Delete** button to delete the epic.
A modal will pop-up to confirm your action.

Deleting an epic releases all existing issues from their associated epic in the
system.

## Closing and reopening epics

### Using buttons

Whenever you decide that there is no longer need for that epic,
close the epic using the close button:

![close epic - button](img/button_close_epic.png)

You can always reopen it using the reopen button.

![reopen epic - button](img/button_reopen_epic.png)

### Using quick actions

You can close or reopen an epic using [Quick actions](../../project/quick_actions.md)

## Navigating to an epic from an issue

If an issue belongs to an epic, you can navigate to the containing epic with the
link in the issue sidebar.

![containing epic](img/containing_epic.png)

## Promoting an issue to an epic

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/3777) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.6.

If you have [permissions](../../permissions.md) to close an issue and create an
epic in the parent group, you can promote an issue to an epic with the `/promote`
[quick action](../../project/quick_actions.md#quick-actions-for-issues-merge-requests-and-epics).
Only issues from projects that are in groups can be promoted. When attempting to promote a confidential
issue, a warning will display. Promoting a confidential issue to an epic will make all information
related to the issue public as epics are public to group members.

When the quick action is executed:

- An epic is created in the same group as the project of the issue.
- Subscribers of the issue are notified that the epic was created.

The following issue metadata will be copied to the epic:

- Title, description, activity/comment thread.
- Upvotes/downvotes.
- Participants.
- Group labels that the issue already has.

## Searching for an epic from epics list page

> Introduced in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.5.

You can search for an epic from the list of epics using filtered search bar (similar to
that of Issues and Merge requests) based on following parameters:

- Title or description
- Author name / username
- Labels

![epics search](img/epics_search.png)

To search, go to the list of epics and click on the field **Search or filter results...**.
It will display a dropdown menu, from which you can add an author. You can also enter plain
text to search by epic title or description. When done, press <kbd>Enter</kbd> on your
keyboard to filter the list.

You can also sort epics list by:

- **Created date**
- **Last updated**
- **Start date**
- **Due date**

Each option contains a button that can toggle the order between **ascending** and **descending**. The sort option and order will be persisted to be used wherever epics are browsed including the [roadmap](../roadmap/index.md).

![epics sort](img/epics_sort.png)

## Permissions

If you have access to view an epic and have access to view an issue already
added to that epic, then you can view the issue in the epic issue list.

If you have access to edit an epic and have access to edit an issue, then you
can add the issue to or remove it from the epic.

Note that for a given group, the visibility of all projects must be the same as
the group, or less restrictive. That means if you have access to a group's epic,
then you already have access to its projects' issues.

You may also consult the [group permissions table](../../permissions.md#group-members-permissions).

## Thread

- Comments: collaborate on that epic by posting comments in its thread.
  These text fields also fully support
  [GitLab Flavored Markdown](../../markdown.md#gitlab-flavored-markdown-gfm).

## Comment, or start a thread

Once you wrote your comment, you can either:

- Click "Comment" and your comment will be published.
- Click "Start thread": start a thread within that epic's discussion to discuss specific points.

## Award emoji

- You can [award an emoji](../../award_emojis.md) to that epic or its comments.

## Notifications

- [Receive notifications](../../profile/notifications.md) for epic events.

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->

Commit message:

Added opened and closed descendant counts in epic

doc/user/group/epics/index.md, after:

---
type: reference, howto
---

# Epics **(ULTIMATE)**

> Introduced in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.2.

Epics let you manage your portfolio of projects more efficiently and with less
effort by tracking groups of issues that share a theme, across projects and
milestones.

![epics list view](img/epics_list_view_v12.5.png)

## Use cases

- Suppose your team is working on a large feature that involves multiple discussions throughout different issues created in distinct projects within a [Group](../index.md). With Epics, you can track all the related activities that together contribute to that single feature.
- Track when the work for the group of issues is targeted to begin, and when it is targeted to end.
- Discuss and collaborate on feature ideas and scope at a high level.

## Creating an epic

A paginated list of epics is available in each group from where you can create
a new epic. The list of epics includes also epics from all subgroups of the
selected group. From your group page:

1. Go to **Epics**.
1. Click **New epic**.
1. Enter a descriptive title and click **Create epic**.

You will be taken to the new epic where can edit the following details:

- Title
- Description
- Start date
- Due date
- Labels

An epic's page contains the following tabs:

- **Epics and Issues**: epics and issues added to this epic. Child epics, and their issues, are shown in a tree view.
  - Click on the <kbd>></kbd> beside a parent epic to reveal the child epics and issues.
  - Hover over the total counts to see a breakdown of open and closed items.
- **Roadmap**: a roadmap view of child epics which have start and due dates.

![epic view](img/epic_view_v12.3.png)

## Adding an issue to an epic

Any issue that belongs to a project in the epic's group, or any of the epic's
subgroups, are eligible to be added.  New issues appear at the top of the list of issues in the **Epics and Issues** tab.

An epic contains a list of issues and an issue can be associated with at most
one epic. When you add an issue that is already linked to an epic,
the issue is automatically unlinked from its current parent.

To add an issue to an epic:

1. Click **Add an issue**.
1. Identify the issue to be added, using either of the following methods:
   - Paste the link of the issue.
   - Search for the desired issue by entering part of the issue's title, then selecting the desired match. ([From GitLab 12.5](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9126))

   If there are multiple issues to be added, press <kbd>Spacebar</kbd> and repeat this step.
1. Click **Add**.

To remove an issue from an epic:

1. Click on the <kbd>x</kbd> button in the epic's issue list.
1. Click **Remove** in the **Remove issue** warning message.

## Multi-level child epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/8333) in GitLab Ultimate 11.7.

Any epic that belongs to a group, or subgroup of the parent epic's group, is
eligible to be added. New child epics appear at the top of the list of epics in the **Epics and Issues** tab.

When you add an epic that is already linked to a parent epic, the link to its current parent is removed.

An epic can have multiple child epics with
the maximum depth being 5.

To add a child epic to an epic:

1. Click **Add an epic**.
1. Identify the epic to be added, using either of the following methods:
   - Paste the link of the epic.
   - Search for the desired issue by entering part of the epic's title, then selecting the desired match. ([From GitLab 12.5](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9126))

   If there are multiple epics to be added, press <kbd>Spacebar</kbd> and repeat this step.
1. Click **Add**.

To remove a child epic from a parent epic:

1. Click on the <kbd>x</kbd> button in the parent epic's list of epics.
1. Click **Remove** in the **Remove epic** warning message.

## Start date and due date

To set a **Start date** and **Due date** for an epic, select one of the following:

- **Fixed**: Enter a fixed value.
- **From milestones**: Inherit a dynamic value from the issues added to the epic.
- **Inherited**: Inherit a dynamic value from the issues added to the epic. ([Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7332) in GitLab 12.5 to replace **From milestones**).

### Milestones

If you select **From milestones** for the start date, GitLab will automatically set the date to be earliest
start date across all milestones that are currently assigned to the issues that are added to the epic.
Similarly, if you select **From milestones** for the due date, GitLab will set it to be the latest due date across
all milestones that are currently assigned to those issues.

These are dynamic dates which are recalculated if any of the following occur:

- Milestones are re-assigned to the issues.
- Milestone dates change.
- Issues are added or removed from the epic.

### Inherited

If you select **Inherited** for the start date, GitLab will scan all child epics and issues assigned to the epic,
and will set the start date to match the earliest found start date or milestone. Similarly, if you select
**Inherited** for the due date, GitLab will set the due date to match the latest due date or milestone
found among its child epics and issues.

These are dynamic dates and recalculated if any of the following occur:

- A child epic's dates change.
- Milestones are reassigned to an issue.
- A milestone's dates change.
- Issues are added to, or removed from, the epic.

Because the epic's dates can inherit dates from its children, the start date and due date propagate from the bottom to the top.
If the start date of a child epic on the lowest level changes, that becomes the earliest possible start date for its parent epic,
then the parent epic's start date will reflect the change and this will propagate upwards to the top epic.

## Roadmap in epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7327) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.10.

If your epic contains one or more [child epics](#multi-level-child-epics) which
have a [start or due date](#start-date-and-due-date), a
[roadmap](../roadmap/index.md) view of the child epics is listed under the parent epic.

![Child epics roadmap](img/epic_view_roadmap_v12.3.png)

## Reordering issues and child epics

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/9367) in GitLab 12.5.

New issues and child epics are added to the top of their respective lists in the **Epics and Issues** tab. You can reorder the list of issues and the list of child epics. Issues and child epics cannot be intermingled.

To reorder issues assigned to an epic:

1. Go to the **Epics and Issues** tab.
1. Drag and drop issues into the desired order.

To reorder child epics assigned to an epic:

1. Go to the **Epics and Issues** tab.
1. Drag and drop epics into the desired order.

## Updating epics

### Using bulk editing

To apply labels across multiple epics:

1. Go to the Epics list.
1. Click **Edit epics**.
    - Checkboxes will appear beside each epic.
    - A sidebar on the right-hand side will appear, with an editable field for labels.
1. Check the checkbox beside each epic to be edited.
1. Select the desired labels.
1. Click **Update all**.

![bulk editing](img/bulk_editing.png)

## Deleting an epic

NOTE: **Note:**
To delete an epic, you need to be an [Owner](../../permissions.md#group-members-permissions) of a group/subgroup.

When inside a single epic view, click the **Delete** button to delete the epic.
A modal will pop-up to confirm your action.

Deleting an epic releases all existing issues from their associated epic in the
system.

## Closing and reopening epics

### Using buttons

Whenever you decide that there is no longer need for that epic,
close the epic using the close button:

![close epic - button](img/button_close_epic.png)

You can always reopen it using the reopen button.

![reopen epic - button](img/button_reopen_epic.png)

### Using quick actions

You can close or reopen an epic using [Quick actions](../../project/quick_actions.md)

## Navigating to an epic from an issue

If an issue belongs to an epic, you can navigate to the containing epic with the
link in the issue sidebar.

![containing epic](img/containing_epic.png)

## Promoting an issue to an epic

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/3777) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.6.

If you have [permissions](../../permissions.md) to close an issue and create an
epic in the parent group, you can promote an issue to an epic with the `/promote`
[quick action](../../project/quick_actions.md#quick-actions-for-issues-merge-requests-and-epics).
Only issues from projects that are in groups can be promoted. When attempting to promote a confidential
issue, a warning will display. Promoting a confidential issue to an epic will make all information
related to the issue public as epics are public to group members.

When the quick action is executed:

- An epic is created in the same group as the project of the issue.
- Subscribers of the issue are notified that the epic was created.

The following issue metadata will be copied to the epic:

- Title, description, activity/comment thread.
- Upvotes/downvotes.
- Participants.
- Group labels that the issue already has.

## Searching for an epic from epics list page

> Introduced in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.5.

You can search for an epic from the list of epics using filtered search bar (similar to
that of Issues and Merge requests) based on following parameters:

- Title or description
- Author name / username
- Labels

![epics search](img/epics_search.png)

To search, go to the list of epics and click on the field **Search or filter results...**.
It will display a dropdown menu, from which you can add an author. You can also enter plain
text to search by epic title or description. When done, press <kbd>Enter</kbd> on your
keyboard to filter the list.

You can also sort epics list by:

- **Created date**
- **Last updated**
- **Start date**
- **Due date**

Each option contains a button that can toggle the order between **ascending** and **descending**. The sort option and order will be persisted to be used wherever epics are browsed including the [roadmap](../roadmap/index.md).

![epics sort](img/epics_sort.png)

## Permissions

If you have access to view an epic and have access to view an issue already
added to that epic, then you can view the issue in the epic issue list.

If you have access to edit an epic and have access to edit an issue, then you
can add the issue to or remove it from the epic.

Note that for a given group, the visibility of all projects must be the same as
the group, or less restrictive. That means if you have access to a group's epic,
then you already have access to its projects' issues.

You may also consult the [group permissions table](../../permissions.md#group-members-permissions).

## Thread

- Comments: collaborate on that epic by posting comments in its thread.
  These text fields also fully support
  [GitLab Flavored Markdown](../../markdown.md#gitlab-flavored-markdown-gfm).

## Comment, or start a thread

Once you wrote your comment, you can either:

- Click "Comment" and your comment will be published.
- Click "Start thread": start a thread within that epic's discussion to discuss specific points.

## Award emoji

- You can [award an emoji](../../award_emojis.md) to that epic or its comments.

## Notifications

- [Receive notifications](../../profile/notifications.md) for epic events.

<!-- ## Troubleshooting

Include any troubleshooting steps that you can foresee. If you know beforehand what issues
one might have when setting this up, or when something is changed, or on upgrading, it's
important to describe those, too. Think of things that may go wrong and include them here.
This is important to minimize requests for support, and to avoid doc comments with
questions that you know someone might ask.

Each scenario can be a third-level heading, e.g. `### Getting error message X`.
If you have none to add when creating a doc, leave this section in place
but commented out to help encourage others to add to it in the future. -->
