doc/user/packages/package_registry/index.md, before:

---
stage: Package
group: Package
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Package Registry **(FREE)**

> [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/221259) to GitLab Free in 13.3.

With the GitLab Package Registry, you can use GitLab as a private or public registry
for a variety of common package managers. You can publish and share
packages, which can be easily consumed as a dependency in downstream projects.

## View packages

You can view packages for your project or group.

1. Go to the project or group.
1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.

You can search, sort, and filter packages on this page. You can share your search results by copying
and pasting the URL from your browser.

You can also find helpful code snippets for configuring your package manager or installing a given package.

When you view packages in a group:

- All projects published to the group and its projects are displayed.
- Only the projects you can access are displayed.
- If a project is private, or you are not a member of the project, it is not displayed.

For information on how to create and upload a package, view the GitLab documentation for your package type.

## Use GitLab CI/CD to build packages

You can use [GitLab CI/CD](../../../ci/README.md) to build packages.
For Maven, NuGet, npm, Conan, and PyPI packages, and Composer dependencies, you can
authenticate with GitLab by using the `CI_JOB_TOKEN`.

CI/CD templates, which you can use to get started, are in [this repository](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/lib/gitlab/ci/templates).

Learn more about using CI/CD to build:

- [Composer packages](../composer_repository/index.md#publish-a-composer-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Conan packages](../conan_repository/index.md#publish-a-conan-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Generic packages](../generic_packages/index.md#publish-a-generic-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Maven packages](../maven_repository/index.md#create-maven-packages-with-gitlab-cicd)
- [npm packages](../npm_registry/index.md#publish-an-npm-package-by-using-cicd)
- [NuGet packages](../nuget_repository/index.md#publish-a-nuget-package-by-using-cicd)

If you use CI/CD to build a package, extended activity information is displayed
when you view the package details:

![Package CI/CD activity](img/package_activity_v12_10.png)

You can view which pipeline published the package, and the commit and user who triggered it. However, the history is limited to five updates of a given package.

## Download a package

To download a package:

1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.
1. Select the name of the package you want to download.
1. In the **Activity** section, select the name of the package you want to download.

## Delete a package

You cannot edit a package after you publish it in the Package Registry. Instead, you
must delete and recreate it.

To delete a package, you must have suitable [permissions](../../permissions.md).

You can delete packages by using [the API](../../../api/packages.md#delete-a-project-package) or the UI.

To delete a package in the UI, from your group or project:

1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.
1. Find the name of the package you want to delete.
1. Click **Delete**.

The package is permanently deleted.

## Disable the Package Registry

The Package Registry is automatically enabled.

If you are using a self-managed instance of GitLab, your administrator can remove
the menu item, **Packages & Registries**, from the GitLab sidebar. For more information,
see the [administration documentation](../../../administration/packages/index.md).

You can also remove the Package Registry for your project specifically:

1. In your project, go to **Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Visibility, project features, permissions** section and disable the
   **Packages** feature.
1. Click **Save changes**.

The **Packages & Registries > Package Registry** entry is removed from the sidebar.

## Package workflows

Learn how to use the GitLab Package Registry to build your own custom package workflow.

- [Use a project as a package registry](../workflows/project_registry.md) to publish all of your packages to one project.

Commit message:

Add docs for deleting a package file

doc/user/packages/package_registry/index.md, after:

---
stage: Package
group: Package
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Package Registry **(FREE)**

> [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/221259) to GitLab Free in 13.3.

With the GitLab Package Registry, you can use GitLab as a private or public registry
for a variety of common package managers. You can publish and share
packages, which can be easily consumed as a dependency in downstream projects.

## View packages

You can view packages for your project or group.

1. Go to the project or group.
1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.

You can search, sort, and filter packages on this page. You can share your search results by copying
and pasting the URL from your browser.

You can also find helpful code snippets for configuring your package manager or installing a given package.

When you view packages in a group:

- All projects published to the group and its projects are displayed.
- Only the projects you can access are displayed.
- If a project is private, or you are not a member of the project, it is not displayed.

For information on how to create and upload a package, view the GitLab documentation for your package type.

## Use GitLab CI/CD to build packages

You can use [GitLab CI/CD](../../../ci/README.md) to build packages.
For Maven, NuGet, npm, Conan, and PyPI packages, and Composer dependencies, you can
authenticate with GitLab by using the `CI_JOB_TOKEN`.

CI/CD templates, which you can use to get started, are in [this repository](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/lib/gitlab/ci/templates).

Learn more about using the GitLab Package Registry with CI/CD:

- [Composer](../composer_repository/index.md#publish-a-composer-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Conan](../conan_repository/index.md#publish-a-conan-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Generic](../generic_packages/index.md#publish-a-generic-package-by-using-cicd)
- [Maven](../maven_repository/index.md#create-maven-packages-with-gitlab-cicd)
- [npm](../npm_registry/index.md#publish-an-npm-package-by-using-cicd)
- [NuGet](../nuget_repository/index.md#publish-a-nuget-package-by-using-cicd)
- [PyPI](../pypi_repository/#authenticate-with-a-ci-job-token)
- [RubyGems](../rubygems_registry/#authenticate-with-a-ci-job-token)

If you use CI/CD to build a package, extended activity information is displayed
when you view the package details:

![Package CI/CD activity](img/package_activity_v12_10.png)

You can view which pipeline published the package, and the commit and user who triggered it. However, the history is limited to five updates of a given package.

## Download a package

To download a package:

1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.
1. Select the name of the package you want to download.
1. In the **Activity** section, select the name of the package you want to download.

## Delete a package

You cannot edit a package after you publish it in the Package Registry. Instead, you
must delete and recreate it.

To delete a package, you must have suitable [permissions](../../permissions.md).

You can delete packages by using [the API](../../../api/packages.md#delete-a-project-package) or the UI.

To delete a package in the UI, from your group or project:

1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.
1. Find the name of the package you want to delete.
1. Click **Delete**.

The package is permanently deleted.

## Delete files associated with a package

To delete package files, you must have suitable [permissions](../../permissions.md).

You can delete packages by using [the API](../../../api/packages.md#delete-a-package-file) or the UI.

To delete package files in the UI, from your group or project:

1. Go to **Packages & Registries > Package Registry**.
1. Find the name of the package you want to delete.
1. Select the package to view additional details.
1. Find the name of the file you would like to delete. 
1. Expand the ellipsis and select **Delete file**.

The package files are permanently deleted.

## Disable the Package Registry

The Package Registry is automatically enabled.

If you are using a self-managed instance of GitLab, your administrator can remove
the menu item, **Packages & Registries**, from the GitLab sidebar. For more information,
see the [administration documentation](../../../administration/packages/index.md).

You can also remove the Package Registry for your project specifically:

1. In your project, go to **Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Visibility, project features, permissions** section and disable the
   **Packages** feature.
1. Click **Save changes**.

The **Packages & Registries > Package Registry** entry is removed from the sidebar.

## Package workflows

Learn how to use the GitLab Package Registry to build your own custom package workflow.

- [Use a project as a package registry](../workflows/project_registry.md) to publish all of your packages to one project.
