doc/user/admin_area/settings/account_and_limit_settings.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: "To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments"
type: reference
---

# Account and limit settings **(FREE SELF)**

## Default projects limit

You can change the default maximum number of projects that users can create in their personal namespace.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
You can increase or decrease that `Default projects limit` value.

- If you set `Default projects limit` to 0, users are not allowed to create projects
  in their users personal namespace. However, projects can still be created in a group.

## Max attachment size

You can change the maximum file size for attachments in comments and replies in GitLab.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum attachment size (MB)`.

NOTE:
If you choose a size larger than the configured value for the web server,
you may receive errors. See the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting) for more
details.

## Max push size

You can change the maximum push size for your repository.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum push size (MB)`.

## Max import size

You can change the maximum file size for imports in GitLab.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum import size (MB)`.

NOTE:
If you choose a size larger than the configured value for the web server,
you may receive errors. See the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting) for more
details.

## Personal Access Token prefix

You can set a global prefix for all generated Personal Access Tokens.

A prefix can help you identify PATs visually, as well as with automation tools.

### Set a prefix

Only a GitLab administrator can set the prefix, which is a global setting applied
to any PAT generated in the system by any user:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Personal Access Token prefix** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

It is also possible to configure the prefix via the [settings API](../../../api/settings.md)
using the `personal_access_token_prefix` field.

## Repository size limit **(PREMIUM SELF)**

Repositories in your GitLab instance can grow quickly, especially if you are
using LFS. Their size can grow exponentially, rapidly consuming available storage.
To prevent this from happening, you can set a hard limit for your repositories' size.
This limit can be set globally, per group, or per project, with per project limits
taking the highest priority.

There are numerous use cases where you might set up a limit for repository size.
For instance, consider the following workflow:

1. Your team develops apps which require large files to be stored in
   the application repository.
1. Although you have enabled [Git LFS](../../../topics/git/lfs/index.md#git-large-file-storage-lfs)
   to your project, your storage has grown significantly.
1. Before you exceed available storage, you set up a limit of 10 GB
   per repository.

### How it works

Only a GitLab administrator can set those limits. Setting the limit to `0` means
there are no restrictions.

These settings can be found in:

- Each project's settings:
  1. From the Project's homepage, navigate to **Settings > General**.
  1. Fill in the **Repository size limit (MB)** field in the **Naming, topics, avatar** section.
  1. Click **Save changes**.
- Each group's settings:
  1. From the Group's homepage, navigate to **Settings > General**.
  1. Fill in the **Repository size limit (MB)** field in the **Naming, visibility** section.
  1. Click **Save changes**.
- GitLab global settings:
  1. From the Dashboard, navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
  1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
  1. Fill in the **Size limit per repository (MB)** field.
  1. Click **Save changes**.

The first push of a new project, including LFS objects, is checked for size.
If the sum of their sizes exceeds the maximum allowed repository size, the push
is rejected.

NOTE:
The repository size limit includes repository files and LFS, but does not include artifacts, uploads,
wiki, packages, or snippets.

For details on manually purging files, see [reducing the repository size using Git](../../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md).

NOTE:
For GitLab.com repository size limits, see [accounts and limit settings](../../gitlab_com/index.md#account-and-limit-settings).

## Troubleshooting

### 413 Request Entity Too Large

When attaching a file to a comment or reply in GitLab displays a `413 Request Entity Too Large`
error, the [max attachment size](#max-attachment-size)
is probably larger than the web server's allowed value.

To increase the max attachment size to 200 MB in a
[Omnibus GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/) install, you may need to
add the line below to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` before increasing the max attachment size:

```ruby
nginx['client_max_body_size'] = "200m"
```

## Customize session duration for Git Operations when 2FA is enabled **(PREMIUM)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/296669) in GitLab 13.9.
> - It's deployed behind a feature flag, disabled by default.
> - It's disabled on GitLab.com.
> - It's not recommended for production use.
> - To use it in GitLab self-managed instances, ask a GitLab administrator to [enable it](../../../security/two_factor_authentication.md#enable-or-disable-two-factor-authentication-2fa-for-git-operations)

GitLab administrators can choose to customize the session duration (in minutes) for Git operations when 2FA is enabled. The default is 15 and this can be set to a value between 1 and 10080.

To set a limit on how long these sessions are valid:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Session duration for Git operations when 2FA is enabled (minutes)** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

## Limit the lifetime of personal access tokens **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/3649) in GitLab Ultimate 12.6.

Users can optionally specify a lifetime for
[personal access tokens](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md).
This lifetime is not a requirement, and can be set to any arbitrary number of days.

Personal access tokens are the only tokens needed for programmatic access to GitLab.
However, organizations with security requirements may want to enforce more protection by
requiring the regular rotation of these tokens.

### Set a lifetime

Only a GitLab administrator can set a lifetime. Leaving it empty means
there are no restrictions.

To set a lifetime on how long personal access tokens are valid:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Maximum allowable lifetime for personal access tokens (days)** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

Once a lifetime for personal access tokens is set, GitLab:

- Applies the lifetime for new personal access tokens, and require users to set an expiration date
  and a date no later than the allowed lifetime.
- After three hours, revoke old tokens with no expiration date or with a lifetime longer than the
  allowed lifetime. Three hours is given to allow administrators to change the allowed lifetime,
  or remove it, before revocation takes place.

## Enforce SSH key expiration **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/250480) in GitLab 13.9.

By default, expired SSH keys **can still be used**.

WARNING:
Allowing use of expired SSH keys by default is deprecated and scheduled to change in GitLab 14.0.

To prevent the use of expired SSH keys:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Select the **Enforce SSH key expiration** checkbox.

Enforcing SSH key expiration immediately disables all expired SSH keys.

For more information, see the following issue on [SSH key expiration](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/320970).

## Do not enforce Personal Access Token expiration **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/214723) in GitLab Ultimate 13.1.
> - [Feature flag removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/296881) in GitLab 13.9.

By default, expired personal access tokens (PATs) cannot be used.
You can allow the use of expired PATs with the following steps:

To do this:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Uncheck the **Enforce personal access token expiration** checkbox.

## Disable user profile name changes **(PREMIUM SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/24605) in GitLab 12.7.

To maintain integrity of user details in [Audit Events](../../../administration/audit_events.md), GitLab administrators can choose to disable a user's ability to change their profile name.

To do this:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
1. Check the **Prevent users from changing their profile name** checkbox.

NOTE:
When this ability is disabled, GitLab administrators can still use the
[Admin UI](../index.md#administering-users) or the
[API](../../../api/users.md#user-modification) to update usernames.

Commit message:

Clarify which size limit applies to adding new files via UI

doc/user/admin_area/settings/account_and_limit_settings.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: "To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments"
type: reference
---

# Account and limit settings **(FREE SELF)**

## Default projects limit

You can change the default maximum number of projects that users can create in their personal namespace.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
You can increase or decrease that `Default projects limit` value.

- If you set `Default projects limit` to 0, users are not allowed to create projects
  in their users personal namespace. However, projects can still be created in a group.

## Max attachment size

You can change the maximum file size for attachments in comments and replies in GitLab.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum attachment size (MB)`.

NOTE:
If you choose a size larger than the configured value for the web server,
you may receive errors. See the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting) for more
details.

## Max push size

You can change the maximum push size for your repository.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum push size (MB)`.

NOTE:
When [adding files to a repository](../../project/repository/web_editor.md#create-a-file)
via the web UI, the maximum **attachment** size is the limiting factor.
This is due to a [web server](../../../development/architecture.md#components)
needing to receive the file before GitLab generates the commit.

## Max import size

You can change the maximum file size for imports in GitLab.
Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
From here, you can increase or decrease by changing the value in `Maximum import size (MB)`.

NOTE:
If you choose a size larger than the configured value for the web server,
you may receive errors. See the [troubleshooting section](#troubleshooting) for more
details.

## Personal Access Token prefix

You can set a global prefix for all generated Personal Access Tokens.

A prefix can help you identify PATs visually, as well as with automation tools.

### Set a prefix

Only a GitLab administrator can set the prefix, which is a global setting applied
to any PAT generated in the system by any user:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Personal Access Token prefix** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

It is also possible to configure the prefix via the [settings API](../../../api/settings.md)
using the `personal_access_token_prefix` field.

## Repository size limit **(PREMIUM SELF)**

Repositories in your GitLab instance can grow quickly, especially if you are
using LFS. Their size can grow exponentially, rapidly consuming available storage.
To prevent this from happening, you can set a hard limit for your repositories' size.
This limit can be set globally, per group, or per project, with per project limits
taking the highest priority.

There are numerous use cases where you might set up a limit for repository size.
For instance, consider the following workflow:

1. Your team develops apps which require large files to be stored in
   the application repository.
1. Although you have enabled [Git LFS](../../../topics/git/lfs/index.md#git-large-file-storage-lfs)
   to your project, your storage has grown significantly.
1. Before you exceed available storage, you set up a limit of 10 GB
   per repository.

### How it works

Only a GitLab administrator can set those limits. Setting the limit to `0` means
there are no restrictions.

These settings can be found in:

- Each project's settings:
  1. From the Project's homepage, navigate to **Settings > General**.
  1. Fill in the **Repository size limit (MB)** field in the **Naming, topics, avatar** section.
  1. Click **Save changes**.
- Each group's settings:
  1. From the Group's homepage, navigate to **Settings > General**.
  1. Fill in the **Repository size limit (MB)** field in the **Naming, visibility** section.
  1. Click **Save changes**.
- GitLab global settings:
  1. From the Dashboard, navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
  1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
  1. Fill in the **Size limit per repository (MB)** field.
  1. Click **Save changes**.

The first push of a new project, including LFS objects, is checked for size.
If the sum of their sizes exceeds the maximum allowed repository size, the push
is rejected.

NOTE:
The repository size limit includes repository files and LFS, but does not include artifacts, uploads,
wiki, packages, or snippets.

For details on manually purging files, see [reducing the repository size using Git](../../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md).

NOTE:
For GitLab.com repository size limits, see [accounts and limit settings](../../gitlab_com/index.md#account-and-limit-settings).

## Troubleshooting

### 413 Request Entity Too Large

When attaching a file to a comment or reply in GitLab displays a `413 Request Entity Too Large`
error, the [max attachment size](#max-attachment-size)
is probably larger than the web server's allowed value.

To increase the max attachment size to 200 MB in a
[Omnibus GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/) install, you may need to
add the line below to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` before increasing the max attachment size:

```ruby
nginx['client_max_body_size'] = "200m"
```

## Customize session duration for Git Operations when 2FA is enabled **(PREMIUM)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/296669) in GitLab 13.9.
> - It's deployed behind a feature flag, disabled by default.
> - It's disabled on GitLab.com.
> - It's not recommended for production use.
> - To use it in GitLab self-managed instances, ask a GitLab administrator to [enable it](../../../security/two_factor_authentication.md#enable-or-disable-two-factor-authentication-2fa-for-git-operations)

GitLab administrators can choose to customize the session duration (in minutes) for Git operations when 2FA is enabled. The default is 15 and this can be set to a value between 1 and 10080.

To set a limit on how long these sessions are valid:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Session duration for Git operations when 2FA is enabled (minutes)** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

## Limit the lifetime of personal access tokens **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/3649) in GitLab Ultimate 12.6.

Users can optionally specify a lifetime for
[personal access tokens](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md).
This lifetime is not a requirement, and can be set to any arbitrary number of days.

Personal access tokens are the only tokens needed for programmatic access to GitLab.
However, organizations with security requirements may want to enforce more protection by
requiring the regular rotation of these tokens.

### Set a lifetime

Only a GitLab administrator can set a lifetime. Leaving it empty means
there are no restrictions.

To set a lifetime on how long personal access tokens are valid:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Fill in the **Maximum allowable lifetime for personal access tokens (days)** field.
1. Click **Save changes**.

Once a lifetime for personal access tokens is set, GitLab:

- Applies the lifetime for new personal access tokens, and require users to set an expiration date
  and a date no later than the allowed lifetime.
- After three hours, revoke old tokens with no expiration date or with a lifetime longer than the
  allowed lifetime. Three hours is given to allow administrators to change the allowed lifetime,
  or remove it, before revocation takes place.

## Enforce SSH key expiration **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/250480) in GitLab 13.9.

By default, expired SSH keys **can still be used**.

WARNING:
Allowing use of expired SSH keys by default is deprecated and scheduled to change in GitLab 14.0.

To prevent the use of expired SSH keys:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Select the **Enforce SSH key expiration** checkbox.

Enforcing SSH key expiration immediately disables all expired SSH keys.

For more information, see the following issue on [SSH key expiration](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/320970).

## Do not enforce Personal Access Token expiration **(ULTIMATE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/214723) in GitLab Ultimate 13.1.
> - [Feature flag removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/296881) in GitLab 13.9.

By default, expired personal access tokens (PATs) cannot be used.
You can allow the use of expired PATs with the following steps:

To do this:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**.
1. Expand the **Account and limit** section.
1. Uncheck the **Enforce personal access token expiration** checkbox.

## Disable user profile name changes **(PREMIUM SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/24605) in GitLab 12.7.

To maintain integrity of user details in [Audit Events](../../../administration/audit_events.md), GitLab administrators can choose to disable a user's ability to change their profile name.

To do this:

1. Navigate to **Admin Area > Settings > General**, then expand **Account and Limit**.
1. Check the **Prevent users from changing their profile name** checkbox.

NOTE:
When this ability is disabled, GitLab administrators can still use the
[Admin UI](../index.md#administering-users) or the
[API](../../../api/users.md#user-modification) to update usernames.
