doc/user/admin_area/settings/rate_limit_on_issues_creation.md, before:

---
type: reference
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Rate limits on issue creation **(FREE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/28129) in GitLab 12.10.

This setting allows you to rate limit the requests to the issue creation endpoint.
You can change its value in **Admin Area > Settings > Network > Issues Rate Limits**.

For example, if you set a limit of 300, requests using the
[Projects::IssuesController#create](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/raw/master/app/controllers/projects/issues_controller.rb)
action exceeding a rate of 300 per minute are blocked. Access to the endpoint is allowed after one minute.

![Rate limits on issues creation](img/rate_limit_on_issues_creation_v13_1.png)

This limit is:

- Applied independently per project and per user.
- Not applied per IP address.
- Disabled by default. To enable it, set the option to any value other than `0`.

Requests over the rate limit are logged into the `auth.log` file.

Commit message:

Update Plan pages with 14.0 Admin Area access info

doc/user/admin_area/settings/rate_limit_on_issues_creation.md, after:

---
type: reference
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Rate limits on issue creation **(FREE SELF)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/28129) in GitLab 12.10.

This setting allows you to rate limit the requests to the issue creation endpoint.
To can change its value:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > Network**.
1. Expand **Issues Rate Limits**.
1. Under **Max requests per minute per user**, enter the new value.
1. Select **Save changes**.

For example, if you set a limit of 300, requests using the
[Projects::IssuesController#create](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/raw/master/app/controllers/projects/issues_controller.rb)
action exceeding a rate of 300 per minute are blocked. Access to the endpoint is allowed after one minute.

![Rate limits on issues creation](img/rate_limit_on_issues_creation_v13_1.png)

This limit is:

- Applied independently per project and per user.
- Not applied per IP address.
- Disabled by default. To enable it, set the option to any value other than `0`.

Requests over the rate limit are logged into the `auth.log` file.
