doc/api/geo_nodes.md, before:

# Geo Nodes API

In order to interact with Geo node endpoints, you need to authenticate yourself
as an admin.

## Retrieve configuration about all Geo nodes

```
GET /geo_nodes
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
    "primary": true,
    "enabled": true,
    "current": true,
    "files_max_capacity": 10,
    "repos_max_capacity": 25,
    "verification_max_capacity": 100,
    "clone_protocol": "http"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "url": "https://secondary.example.com/",
    "primary": false,
    "enabled": true,
    "current": false,
    "files_max_capacity": 10,
    "repos_max_capacity": 25,
    "verification_max_capacity": 100,
    "clone_protocol": "http"
  }
]
```

## Retrieve configuration about a specific Geo node

```
GET /geo_nodes/:id
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/1
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
  "primary": true,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Edit a Geo node

Updates settings of an existing Geo node.

_This can only be run against a primary Geo node._

```
PUT /geo_nodes/:id
```

| Attribute            | Type    | Required  | Description                                                               |
|----------------------|---------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`                 | integer | yes       | The ID of the Geo node.                                                   |
| `enabled`            | boolean | no        | Flag indicating if the Geo node is enabled.                               |
| `url`                | string  | no        | The URL to connect to the Geo node.                                       |
| `files_max_capacity` | integer | no        | Control the maximum concurrency of LFS/attachment backfill for this secondary node. |
| `repos_max_capacity` | integer | no        | Control the maximum concurrency of repository backfill for this secondary node.     |
| `verification_max_capacity` | integer | no | Control the maximum concurrency of verification for this node. |

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://secondary.example.com/",
  "primary": false,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Delete a Geo node

Removes the Geo node.

```
DELETE /geo_nodes/:id
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description             |
|-----------|---------|----------|-------------------------|
| `id`      | integer | yes      | The ID of the Geo node. |

## Repair a Geo node

To repair the OAuth authentication of a Geo node.

_This can only be run against a primary Geo node._

```
POST /geo_nodes/:id/repair
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
  "primary": true,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Retrieve status about all Geo nodes

```
GET /geo_nodes/status
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/status
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "geo_node_id": 1,
    "healthy": true,
    "health": "Healthy",
    "health_status": "Healthy",
    "missing_oauth_application": false,
    "attachments_count": 1,
    "attachments_synced_count": nil,
    "attachments_failed_count": nil,
    "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "db_replication_lag_seconds": nil,
    "lfs_objects_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_count": nil,
    "lfs_objects_failed_count": nil,
    "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "job_artifacts_count": 2,
    "job_artifacts_synced_count": nil,
    "job_artifacts_failed_count": nil,
    "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "repositories_count": 41,
    "projects_count": 41,
    "repositories_failed_count": nil,
    "repositories_synced_count": nil,
    "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "wikis_count": 41,
    "wikis_failed_count": nil,
    "wikis_synced_count": nil,
    "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "replication_slots_count": 1,
    "replication_slots_used_count": 1,
    "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": 0,
    "repositories_checked_count": 20,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "repositories_checksummed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checksum_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_checksummed_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "wikis_checksummed_count": 10,
    "wikis_checksum_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_checksummed_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "repositories_verified_count": 20,
    "repositories_verification_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_verified_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "repositories_checksum_mismatch_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_count": 10,
    "wikis_verification_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "wikis_checksum_mismatch_count": 1,
    "repositories_retrying_verification_count": 1,
    "wikis_retrying_verification_count": 3,
    "repositories_checked_count": 7,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 2,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "17.07%",
    "last_event_id": 23,
    "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "cursor_last_event_id": nil,
    "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 0,
    "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125024,
    "version": "10.3.0",
    "revision": "33d33a096a",
  },
  {
    "geo_node_id": 2,
    "healthy": true,
    "health": "Healthy",
    "health_status": "Healthy",
    "missing_oauth_application": false,
    "attachments_count": 1,
    "attachments_synced_count": 1,
    "attachments_failed_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "db_replication_lag_seconds": 0,
    "lfs_objects_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_failed_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "job_artifacts_count": 2,
    "job_artifacts_synced_count": 1,
    "job_artifacts_failed_count": 1,
    "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "50.00%",
    "repositories_count": 41,
    "projects_count": 41,
    "repositories_failed_count": 1,
    "repositories_synced_count": 40,
    "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "97.56%",
    "wikis_count": 41,
    "wikis_failed_count": 0,
    "wikis_synced_count": 41,
    "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "replication_slots_count": nil,
    "replication_slots_used_count": nil,
    "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": nil,
    "repositories_checksummed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checksum_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_checksummed_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "wikis_checksummed_count": 10,
    "wikis_checksum_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_checksummed_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "repositories_verified_count": 20,
    "repositories_verification_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_verified_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "repositories_checksum_mismatch_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_count": 10,
    "wikis_verification_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "wikis_checksum_mismatch_count": 1,
    "repositories_retrying_verification_count": 4,
    "wikis_retrying_verification_count": 2,
    "repositories_checked_count": 5,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 1,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "12.20%",
    "last_event_id": 23,
    "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "cursor_last_event_id": 23,
    "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125024,
    "version": "10.3.0",
    "revision": "33d33a096a"
  }
]
```

Note: fields `wikis_count` and `repositories_count` are deprecated and will be deleted soon. Please use `projects_count` instead.

## Retrieve status about a specific Geo node

```
GET /geo_nodes/:id/status
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/2/status
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "geo_node_id": 2,
  "healthy": true,
  "health": "Healthy",
  "health_status": "Healthy",
  "missing_oauth_application": false,
  "attachments_count": 1,
  "attachments_synced_count": 1,
  "attachments_failed_count": 0,
  "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
  "db_replication_lag_seconds": 0,
  "lfs_objects_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_failed_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
  "job_artifacts_count": 2,
  "job_artifacts_synced_count": 1,
  "job_artifacts_failed_count": 1,
  "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "50.00%",
  "repositories_count": 41,
  "projects_count": 41,
  "repositories_failed_count": 1,
  "repositories_synced_count": 40,
  "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "97.56%",
  "wikis_count": 41,
  "wikis_failed_count": 0,
  "wikis_synced_count": 41,
  "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
  "replication_slots_count": nil,
  "replication_slots_used_count": nil,
  "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "0.00%",
  "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": nil,
  "last_event_id": 23,
  "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
  "cursor_last_event_id": 23,
  "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
  "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125268,
  "version": "10.3.0",
  "revision": "33d33a096a"
}
```

Note: The `health_status` parameter can only be in an "Healthy" or "Unhealthy" state, while the `health` parameter can be empty, "Healthy", or contain the actual error message.

Note: Fields `wikis_count` and `repositories_count` are deprecated and will be deleted soon. Please use `projects_count` instead.

## Retrieve project sync or verification failures that occurred on the current node

This only works on a secondary node.

```
GET /geo_nodes/current/failures
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type`         | string  | no | Type of failed objects (`repository`/`wiki`) |
| `failure_type` | string | no | Type of failures (`sync`/`checksum_mismatch`/`verification`) |

This endpoint uses [Pagination](README.md#pagination).

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/current/failures
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "project_id": 3,
    "last_repository_synced_at": "2017-10-31 14:25:55 UTC",
    "last_repository_successful_sync_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:04 UTC",
    "last_wiki_synced_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:04 UTC",
    "last_wiki_successful_sync_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:11 UTC",
    "repository_retry_count": null,
    "wiki_retry_count": 1,
    "last_repository_sync_failure": null,
    "last_wiki_sync_failure": "Error syncing Wiki repository",
    "last_repository_verification_failure": "",
    "last_wiki_verification_failure": "",
    "repository_verification_checksum_sha": "da39a3ee5e6b4b0d32e5bfef9a601890afd80709",
    "wiki_verification_checksum_sha": "da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef9ef0189aafd80709",
    "repository_checksum_mismatch": false,
    "wiki_checksum_mismatch": false
  }
]
```

Commit message:

Geo node can only be deleted against Geo primary

doc/api/geo_nodes.md, after:

# Geo Nodes API

In order to interact with Geo node endpoints, you need to authenticate yourself
as an admin.

## Retrieve configuration about all Geo nodes

```
GET /geo_nodes
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
    "primary": true,
    "enabled": true,
    "current": true,
    "files_max_capacity": 10,
    "repos_max_capacity": 25,
    "verification_max_capacity": 100,
    "clone_protocol": "http"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "url": "https://secondary.example.com/",
    "primary": false,
    "enabled": true,
    "current": false,
    "files_max_capacity": 10,
    "repos_max_capacity": 25,
    "verification_max_capacity": 100,
    "clone_protocol": "http"
  }
]
```

## Retrieve configuration about a specific Geo node

```
GET /geo_nodes/:id
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/1
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
  "primary": true,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Edit a Geo node

Updates settings of an existing Geo node.

_This can only be run against a primary Geo node._

```
PUT /geo_nodes/:id
```

| Attribute            | Type    | Required  | Description                                                               |
|----------------------|---------|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`                 | integer | yes       | The ID of the Geo node.                                                   |
| `enabled`            | boolean | no        | Flag indicating if the Geo node is enabled.                               |
| `url`                | string  | no        | The URL to connect to the Geo node.                                       |
| `files_max_capacity` | integer | no        | Control the maximum concurrency of LFS/attachment backfill for this secondary node. |
| `repos_max_capacity` | integer | no        | Control the maximum concurrency of repository backfill for this secondary node.     |
| `verification_max_capacity` | integer | no | Control the maximum concurrency of verification for this node. |

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://secondary.example.com/",
  "primary": false,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Delete a Geo node

Removes the Geo node.

NOTE: **Note:**
Only a Geo primary node will accept this request.

```
DELETE /geo_nodes/:id
```

| Attribute | Type    | Required | Description             |
|-----------|---------|----------|-------------------------|
| `id`      | integer | yes      | The ID of the Geo node. |

## Repair a Geo node

To repair the OAuth authentication of a Geo node.

_This can only be run against a primary Geo node._

```
POST /geo_nodes/:id/repair
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "url": "https://primary.example.com/",
  "primary": true,
  "enabled": true,
  "current": true,
  "files_max_capacity": 10,
  "repos_max_capacity": 25,
  "verification_max_capacity": 100,
  "clone_protocol": "http"
}
```

## Retrieve status about all Geo nodes

```
GET /geo_nodes/status
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/status
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "geo_node_id": 1,
    "healthy": true,
    "health": "Healthy",
    "health_status": "Healthy",
    "missing_oauth_application": false,
    "attachments_count": 1,
    "attachments_synced_count": nil,
    "attachments_failed_count": nil,
    "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "db_replication_lag_seconds": nil,
    "lfs_objects_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_count": nil,
    "lfs_objects_failed_count": nil,
    "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "job_artifacts_count": 2,
    "job_artifacts_synced_count": nil,
    "job_artifacts_failed_count": nil,
    "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "repositories_count": 41,
    "projects_count": 41,
    "repositories_failed_count": nil,
    "repositories_synced_count": nil,
    "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "wikis_count": 41,
    "wikis_failed_count": nil,
    "wikis_synced_count": nil,
    "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "replication_slots_count": 1,
    "replication_slots_used_count": 1,
    "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": 0,
    "repositories_checked_count": 20,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "repositories_checksummed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checksum_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_checksummed_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "wikis_checksummed_count": 10,
    "wikis_checksum_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_checksummed_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "repositories_verified_count": 20,
    "repositories_verification_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_verified_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "repositories_checksum_mismatch_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_count": 10,
    "wikis_verification_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "wikis_checksum_mismatch_count": 1,
    "repositories_retrying_verification_count": 1,
    "wikis_retrying_verification_count": 3,
    "repositories_checked_count": 7,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 2,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "17.07%",
    "last_event_id": 23,
    "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "cursor_last_event_id": nil,
    "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 0,
    "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125024,
    "version": "10.3.0",
    "revision": "33d33a096a",
  },
  {
    "geo_node_id": 2,
    "healthy": true,
    "health": "Healthy",
    "health_status": "Healthy",
    "missing_oauth_application": false,
    "attachments_count": 1,
    "attachments_synced_count": 1,
    "attachments_failed_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "db_replication_lag_seconds": 0,
    "lfs_objects_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_failed_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "job_artifacts_count": 2,
    "job_artifacts_synced_count": 1,
    "job_artifacts_failed_count": 1,
    "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
    "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "50.00%",
    "repositories_count": 41,
    "projects_count": 41,
    "repositories_failed_count": 1,
    "repositories_synced_count": 40,
    "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "97.56%",
    "wikis_count": 41,
    "wikis_failed_count": 0,
    "wikis_synced_count": 41,
    "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
    "replication_slots_count": nil,
    "replication_slots_used_count": nil,
    "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "0.00%",
    "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": nil,
    "repositories_checksummed_count": 20,
    "repositories_checksum_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_checksummed_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "wikis_checksummed_count": 10,
    "wikis_checksum_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_checksummed_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "repositories_verified_count": 20,
    "repositories_verification_failed_count": 5,
    "repositories_verified_in_percentage": "48.78%",
    "repositories_checksum_mismatch_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_count": 10,
    "wikis_verification_failed_count": 3,
    "wikis_verified_in_percentage": "24.39%",
    "wikis_checksum_mismatch_count": 1,
    "repositories_retrying_verification_count": 4,
    "wikis_retrying_verification_count": 2,
    "repositories_checked_count": 5,
    "repositories_checked_failed_count": 1,
    "repositories_checked_in_percentage": "12.20%",
    "last_event_id": 23,
    "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "cursor_last_event_id": 23,
    "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
    "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125024,
    "version": "10.3.0",
    "revision": "33d33a096a"
  }
]
```

Note: fields `wikis_count` and `repositories_count` are deprecated and will be deleted soon. Please use `projects_count` instead.

## Retrieve status about a specific Geo node

```
GET /geo_nodes/:id/status
```

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/2/status
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "geo_node_id": 2,
  "healthy": true,
  "health": "Healthy",
  "health_status": "Healthy",
  "missing_oauth_application": false,
  "attachments_count": 1,
  "attachments_synced_count": 1,
  "attachments_failed_count": 0,
  "attachments_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "attachments_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
  "db_replication_lag_seconds": 0,
  "lfs_objects_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_failed_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "lfs_objects_synced_in_percentage": "0.00%",
  "job_artifacts_count": 2,
  "job_artifacts_synced_count": 1,
  "job_artifacts_failed_count": 1,
  "job_artifacts_synced_missing_on_primary_count": 0,
  "job_artifacts_synced_in_percentage": "50.00%",
  "repositories_count": 41,
  "projects_count": 41,
  "repositories_failed_count": 1,
  "repositories_synced_count": 40,
  "repositories_synced_in_percentage": "97.56%",
  "wikis_count": 41,
  "wikis_failed_count": 0,
  "wikis_synced_count": 41,
  "wikis_synced_in_percentage": "100.00%",
  "replication_slots_count": nil,
  "replication_slots_used_count": nil,
  "replication_slots_used_in_percentage": "0.00%",
  "replication_slots_max_retained_wal_bytes": nil,
  "last_event_id": 23,
  "last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
  "cursor_last_event_id": 23,
  "cursor_last_event_timestamp": 1509681166,
  "last_successful_status_check_timestamp": 1510125268,
  "version": "10.3.0",
  "revision": "33d33a096a"
}
```

Note: The `health_status` parameter can only be in an "Healthy" or "Unhealthy" state, while the `health` parameter can be empty, "Healthy", or contain the actual error message.

Note: Fields `wikis_count` and `repositories_count` are deprecated and will be deleted soon. Please use `projects_count` instead.

## Retrieve project sync or verification failures that occurred on the current node

This only works on a secondary node.

```
GET /geo_nodes/current/failures
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type`         | string  | no | Type of failed objects (`repository`/`wiki`) |
| `failure_type` | string | no | Type of failures (`sync`/`checksum_mismatch`/`verification`) |

This endpoint uses [Pagination](README.md#pagination).

```bash
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/geo_nodes/current/failures
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "project_id": 3,
    "last_repository_synced_at": "2017-10-31 14:25:55 UTC",
    "last_repository_successful_sync_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:04 UTC",
    "last_wiki_synced_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:04 UTC",
    "last_wiki_successful_sync_at": "2017-10-31 14:26:11 UTC",
    "repository_retry_count": null,
    "wiki_retry_count": 1,
    "last_repository_sync_failure": null,
    "last_wiki_sync_failure": "Error syncing Wiki repository",
    "last_repository_verification_failure": "",
    "last_wiki_verification_failure": "",
    "repository_verification_checksum_sha": "da39a3ee5e6b4b0d32e5bfef9a601890afd80709",
    "wiki_verification_checksum_sha": "da39a3ee5e6b4b0d3255bfef9ef0189aafd80709",
    "repository_checksum_mismatch": false,
    "wiki_checksum_mismatch": false
  }
]
```
