doc/operations/incident_management/alert_integrations.md, before:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Health
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Alert integrations **(CORE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/13203) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/42640) to [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) in 12.8.

GitLab can accept alerts from any source via a webhook receiver. This can be configured
generically or, in GitLab versions 13.1 and greater, you can configure
[External Prometheus instances](../metrics/alerts.md#external-prometheus-instances)
to use this endpoint.

## Integrations list

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/245331) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.5.

With Maintainer or higher [permissions](../../user/permissions.md), you can view
the list of configured alerts integrations by navigating to
**Settings > Operations** in your project's sidebar menu, and expanding **Alerts** section.
The list displays the integration name, type, and status (enabled or disabled):

![Current Integrations](img/integrations_list_v13_5.png)

## Configuration

GitLab can receive alerts via a HTTP endpoint that you configure,
or the [Prometheus integration](#external-prometheus-integration).

### Single HTTP Endpoint **CORE**

Enabling the HTTP Endpoint in a GitLab projects activates it to
receive alert payloads in JSON format. You can always
[customize the payload](#customize-the-alert-payload-outside-of-gitlab) to your liking.

1. Sign in to GitLab as a user with maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
   for a project.
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Expand the **Alerts** section, and in the **Integration** dropdown menu, select **Generic**.
1. Toggle the **Active** alert setting to display the **URL** and **Authorization Key**
   for the webhook configuration.

### HTTP Endpoints **PREMIUM**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4442) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.6.

In [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/), you can create multiple
unique HTTP endpoints to receive alerts from any external source in JSON format,
and you can [customize the payload](#customize-the-alert-payload-outside-of-gitlab).

1. Sign in to GitLab as a user with maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
   for a project.
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Expand the **Alerts** section.
1. For each endpoint you want to create:

   1. In the **Integration** dropdown menu, select **HTTP Endpoint**.
   1. Name the integration.
   1. Toggle the **Active** alert setting to display the **URL** and **Authorization Key**
      for the webhook configuration. You must also input the URL and Authorization Key
      in your external service.
   1. _(Optional)_ To generate a test alert to test the new integration, enter a
      sample payload, then click **Save and test alert payload**. Valid JSON is required.
   1. Click **Save Integration**.

The new HTTP Endpoint displays in the [integrations list](#integrations-list).
You can edit the integration by selecting the **{pencil}** pencil icon on the right
side of the integrations list.

### External Prometheus integration

For GitLab versions 13.1 and greater, please read
[External Prometheus Instances](../metrics/alerts.md#external-prometheus-instances)
to configure alerts for this integration.

## Customize the alert payload outside of GitLab

For all integration types, you can customize the payload by sending the following
parameters. All fields are optional. If the incoming alert does not contain a value for the `Title` field, a default value of `New: Incident` will be applied.

| Property                  | Type            | Description |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| `title`                   | String          | The title of the incident. |
| `description`             | String          | A high-level summary of the problem. |
| `start_time`              | DateTime        | The time of the incident. If none is provided, a timestamp of the issue is used. |
| `end_time`                | DateTime        | For existing alerts only. When provided, the alert is resolved and the associated incident is closed. |
| `service`                 | String          | The affected service. |
| `monitoring_tool`         | String          |  The name of the associated monitoring tool. |
| `hosts`                   | String or Array | One or more hosts, as to where this incident occurred. |
| `severity`                | String          | The severity of the alert. Must be one of `critical`, `high`, `medium`, `low`, `info`, `unknown`. Default is `critical`. |
| `fingerprint`             | String or Array | The unique identifier of the alert. This can be used to group occurrences of the same alert. |
| `gitlab_environment_name` | String          | The name of the associated GitLab [environment](../../ci/environments/index.md). This can be used to associate your alert to your environment. |

You can also add custom fields to the alert's payload. The values of extra
parameters aren't limited to primitive types (such as strings or numbers), but
can be a nested JSON object. For example:

```json
{ "foo": { "bar": { "baz": 42 } } }
```

NOTE:
Ensure your requests are smaller than the
[payload application limits](../../administration/instance_limits.md#generic-alert-json-payloads).

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --data '{"title": "Incident title"}' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer <authorization_key>" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  <url>
```

The `<authorization_key>` and `<url>` values can be found when configuring an alert integration.

Example payload:

```json
{
  "title": "Incident title",
  "description": "Short description of the incident",
  "start_time": "2019-09-12T06:00:55Z",
  "service": "service affected",
  "monitoring_tool": "value",
  "hosts": "value",
  "severity": "high",
  "fingerprint": "d19381d4e8ebca87b55cda6e8eee7385",
  "foo": {
    "bar": {
      "baz": 42
    }
  }
}
```

## Triggering test alerts

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/3066) in GitLab Core in 13.2.

After a [project maintainer or owner](../../user/permissions.md)
configures an integration, you can trigger a test
alert to confirm your integration works properly.

1. Sign in as a user with Developer or greater [permissions](../../user/permissions.md).
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Click **Alerts endpoint** to expand the section.
1. Enter a sample payload in **Alert test payload** (valid JSON is required).
1. Click **Test alert payload**.

GitLab displays an error or success message, depending on the outcome of your test.

## Automatic grouping of identical alerts **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/214557) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.2.

In GitLab versions 13.2 and greater, GitLab groups alerts based on their
payload. When an incoming alert contains the same payload as another alert
(excluding the `start_time` and `hosts` attributes), GitLab groups these alerts
together and displays a counter on the [Alert Management List](incidents.md)
and details pages.

If the existing alert is already `resolved`, GitLab creates a new alert instead.

![Alert Management List](img/alert_list_v13_1.png)

## Link to your Opsgenie Alerts

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/3066) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.2.

WARNING:
We are building deeper integration with Opsgenie and other alerting tools through
[HTTP endpoint integrations](#single-http-endpoint) so you can see alerts in
the GitLab interface. As a result, the previous direct link to Opsgenie Alerts from
the GitLab alerts list is deprecated in
GitLab versions [13.8 and later](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/273657).

You can monitor alerts using a GitLab integration with [Opsgenie](https://www.atlassian.com/software/opsgenie).

If you enable the Opsgenie integration, you can't have other GitLab alert
services
active at the same time.

To enable Opsgenie integration:

1. Sign in as a user with Maintainer or Owner [permissions](../../user/permissions.md).
1. Navigate to **Operations > Alerts**.
1. In the **Integrations** select box, select **Opsgenie**.
1. Select the **Active** toggle.
1. In the **API URL** field, enter the base URL for your Opsgenie integration,
   such as `https://app.opsgenie.com/alert/list`.
1. Select **Save changes**.

After you enable the integration, navigate to the Alerts list page at
**Operations > Alerts**, and then select **View alerts in Opsgenie**.

Commit message:

Build in cross-links to ensure success
Link back and forth between alerts, the alert field, and the
dashboard documentation to ensure the user sets up alerts correctly,
so they will (later) have success when setting up dashboards.

doc/operations/incident_management/alert_integrations.md, after:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Health
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Alert integrations **(CORE)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/13203) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/42640) to [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) in 12.8.

GitLab can accept alerts from any source via a webhook receiver. This can be configured
generically or, in GitLab versions 13.1 and greater, you can configure
[External Prometheus instances](../metrics/alerts.md#external-prometheus-instances)
to use this endpoint.

## Integrations list

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/245331) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.5.

With Maintainer or higher [permissions](../../user/permissions.md), you can view
the list of configured alerts integrations by navigating to
**Settings > Operations** in your project's sidebar menu, and expanding **Alerts** section.
The list displays the integration name, type, and status (enabled or disabled):

![Current Integrations](img/integrations_list_v13_5.png)

## Configuration

GitLab can receive alerts via a HTTP endpoint that you configure,
or the [Prometheus integration](#external-prometheus-integration).

### Single HTTP Endpoint **CORE**

Enabling the HTTP Endpoint in a GitLab projects activates it to
receive alert payloads in JSON format. You can always
[customize the payload](#customize-the-alert-payload-outside-of-gitlab) to your liking.

1. Sign in to GitLab as a user with maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
   for a project.
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Expand the **Alerts** section, and in the **Integration** dropdown menu, select **Generic**.
1. Toggle the **Active** alert setting to display the **URL** and **Authorization Key**
   for the webhook configuration.

### HTTP Endpoints **PREMIUM**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4442) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.6.

In [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/), you can create multiple
unique HTTP endpoints to receive alerts from any external source in JSON format,
and you can [customize the payload](#customize-the-alert-payload-outside-of-gitlab).

1. Sign in to GitLab as a user with maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
   for a project.
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Expand the **Alerts** section.
1. For each endpoint you want to create:

   1. In the **Integration** dropdown menu, select **HTTP Endpoint**.
   1. Name the integration.
   1. Toggle the **Active** alert setting to display the **URL** and **Authorization Key**
      for the webhook configuration. You must also input the URL and Authorization Key
      in your external service.
   1. _(Optional)_ To generate a test alert to test the new integration, enter a
      sample payload, then click **Save and test alert payload**. Valid JSON is required.
   1. Click **Save Integration**.

The new HTTP Endpoint displays in the [integrations list](#integrations-list).
You can edit the integration by selecting the **{pencil}** pencil icon on the right
side of the integrations list.

### External Prometheus integration

For GitLab versions 13.1 and greater, please read
[External Prometheus Instances](../metrics/alerts.md#external-prometheus-instances)
to configure alerts for this integration.

## Customize the alert payload outside of GitLab

For all integration types, you can customize the payload by sending the following
parameters. All fields are optional. If the incoming alert does not contain a value for the `Title` field, a default value of `New: Incident` will be applied.

| Property                  | Type            | Description |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| `title`                   | String          | The title of the incident. |
| `description`             | String          | A high-level summary of the problem. |
| `start_time`              | DateTime        | The time of the incident. If none is provided, a timestamp of the issue is used. |
| `end_time`                | DateTime        | For existing alerts only. When provided, the alert is resolved and the associated incident is closed. |
| `service`                 | String          | The affected service. |
| `monitoring_tool`         | String          |  The name of the associated monitoring tool. |
| `hosts`                   | String or Array | One or more hosts, as to where this incident occurred. |
| `severity`                | String          | The severity of the alert. Must be one of `critical`, `high`, `medium`, `low`, `info`, `unknown`. Default is `critical`. |
| `fingerprint`             | String or Array | The unique identifier of the alert. This can be used to group occurrences of the same alert. |
| `gitlab_environment_name` | String          | The name of the associated GitLab [environment](../../ci/environments/index.md). Required to [display alerts on a dashboard](../../user/operations_dashboard/index.md#adding-a-project-to-the-dashboard). |

You can also add custom fields to the alert's payload. The values of extra
parameters aren't limited to primitive types (such as strings or numbers), but
can be a nested JSON object. For example:

```json
{ "foo": { "bar": { "baz": 42 } } }
```

NOTE:
Ensure your requests are smaller than the
[payload application limits](../../administration/instance_limits.md#generic-alert-json-payloads).

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --data '{"title": "Incident title"}' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer <authorization_key>" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  <url>
```

The `<authorization_key>` and `<url>` values can be found when configuring an alert integration.

Example payload:

```json
{
  "title": "Incident title",
  "description": "Short description of the incident",
  "start_time": "2019-09-12T06:00:55Z",
  "service": "service affected",
  "monitoring_tool": "value",
  "hosts": "value",
  "severity": "high",
  "fingerprint": "d19381d4e8ebca87b55cda6e8eee7385",
  "foo": {
    "bar": {
      "baz": 42
    }
  }
}
```

## Triggering test alerts

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/3066) in GitLab Core in 13.2.

After a [project maintainer or owner](../../user/permissions.md)
configures an integration, you can trigger a test
alert to confirm your integration works properly.

1. Sign in as a user with Developer or greater [permissions](../../user/permissions.md).
1. Navigate to **Settings > Operations** in your project.
1. Click **Alerts endpoint** to expand the section.
1. Enter a sample payload in **Alert test payload** (valid JSON is required).
1. Click **Test alert payload**.

GitLab displays an error or success message, depending on the outcome of your test.

## Automatic grouping of identical alerts **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/214557) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.2.

In GitLab versions 13.2 and greater, GitLab groups alerts based on their
payload. When an incoming alert contains the same payload as another alert
(excluding the `start_time` and `hosts` attributes), GitLab groups these alerts
together and displays a counter on the [Alert Management List](incidents.md)
and details pages.

If the existing alert is already `resolved`, GitLab creates a new alert instead.

![Alert Management List](img/alert_list_v13_1.png)

## Link to your Opsgenie Alerts

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/3066) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.2.

WARNING:
We are building deeper integration with Opsgenie and other alerting tools through
[HTTP endpoint integrations](#single-http-endpoint) so you can see alerts in
the GitLab interface. As a result, the previous direct link to Opsgenie Alerts from
the GitLab alerts list is deprecated in
GitLab versions [13.8 and later](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/273657).

You can monitor alerts using a GitLab integration with [Opsgenie](https://www.atlassian.com/software/opsgenie).

If you enable the Opsgenie integration, you can't have other GitLab alert
services
active at the same time.

To enable Opsgenie integration:

1. Sign in as a user with Maintainer or Owner [permissions](../../user/permissions.md).
1. Navigate to **Operations > Alerts**.
1. In the **Integrations** select box, select **Opsgenie**.
1. Select the **Active** toggle.
1. In the **API URL** field, enter the base URL for your Opsgenie integration,
   such as `https://app.opsgenie.com/alert/list`.
1. Select **Save changes**.

After you enable the integration, navigate to the Alerts list page at
**Operations > Alerts**, and then select **View alerts in Opsgenie**.
