doc/operations/incident_management/oncall_schedules.md, before:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Monitor
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# On-call Schedule Management **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4544) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.11.

Use on-call schedule management to create schedules for responders to rotate on-call
responsibilities. Maintain the availability of your software services by putting your teams on-call.
With an on-call schedule, your team is notified immediately when things go wrong so they can quickly
respond to service outages and disruptions.

To use on-call schedules, users with Maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
must do the following:

1. [Create a schedule](#schedules).
1. [Add a rotation to the schedule](#rotations).

If you have at least Maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
to create a schedule, you can do this manually.

## Schedules

Set up an on-call schedule for your team to add rotations to.

Follow these steps to create a schedule:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select **Add a schedule**.
1. In the **Add schedule** form, enter the schedule's name and description, and select a timezone.
1. Click **Add schedule**.

You now have an empty schedule with no rotations. This renders as an empty state, prompting you to
create [rotations](#rotations) for your schedule.

![Schedule Empty Grid](img/oncall_schedule_empty_grid_v13_10.png)

### Edit a schedule

Follow these steps to update a schedule:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select the **Pencil** icon on the top right of the
   schedule card, across from the schedule name.
1. In the **Edit schedule** form, edit the information you wish to update.
1. Click the **Edit schedule** button to save your changes.

If you change the schedule's time zone, GitLab automatically updates the rotation's restricted time
interval (if one is set) to the corresponding times in the new time zone.

### Delete a schedule

Follow these steps to delete a schedule:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select the **Trash Can** icon on the top right of the
   schedule card.
1. In the **Delete schedule** window, click the **Delete schedule** button.

## Rotations

Add rotations to an existing schedule to put your team members on-call.

Follow these steps to create a rotation:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select **Add a rotation** on the top right of the
   current schedule.
1. In the **Add rotation** form, enter the following:

   - **Name:** Your rotation's name.
   - **Participants:** The people you want in the rotation.
   - **Rotation length:** The rotation's duration.
   - **Starts on:** The date and time the rotation begins.
   - **Enable end date:** With the toggle set to on, you can select the date and time your rotation
     ends.
   - **Restrict to time intervals:** With the toggle set to on, you can restrict your rotation to the
     time period you select.

### Edit a rotation

Follow these steps to edit a rotation:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select the **Pencil** icon to the right of the title
   of the rotation that you want to update.
1. In the **Edit rotation** form, make the changes that you want.
1. Select the **Edit rotation** button.

### Delete a rotation

Follow these steps to delete a rotation:

1. Go to **Operations > On-call Schedules** and select the **Trash Can** icon to the right of the
   title of the rotation that you want to delete.
1. In the **Delete rotation** window, select the **Delete rotation** button.

## View schedule rotations

You can view the on-call schedules of a single day or two weeks. To switch between these time
periods, select the **1 day** or **2 weeks** buttons on the schedule. Two weeks is the default view.

Hover over any rotation shift participants in the schedule to view their individual shift details.

![1 Day Grid View](img/oncall_schedule_day_grid_v13_10.png)

## Page an on-call responder

When an alert is created in a project, GitLab sends an email to the on-call responder(s) in the
on-call schedule for that project. If there is no schedule or no one on-call in that schedule at the
time the alert is triggered, no email is sent.

## Removal or deletion of on-call user

If an on-call user is removed from the project or group, or their account is deleted, the
confirmation modal displays the list of that user's on-call schedules. If the user's removal or
deletion is confirmed, GitLab recalculates the on-call rotation and sends an email to the project
owners and the rotation's participants.

Commit message:

Change Operations to Monitor in Monitor docs

doc/operations/incident_management/oncall_schedules.md, after:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Monitor
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# On-call Schedule Management **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/4544) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 13.11.

Use on-call schedule management to create schedules for responders to rotate on-call
responsibilities. Maintain the availability of your software services by putting your teams on-call.
With an on-call schedule, your team is notified immediately when things go wrong so they can quickly
respond to service outages and disruptions.

To use on-call schedules, users with Maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
must do the following:

1. [Create a schedule](#schedules).
1. [Add a rotation to the schedule](#rotations).

If you have at least Maintainer [permissions](../../user/permissions.md)
to create a schedule, you can do this manually.

## Schedules

Set up an on-call schedule for your team to add rotations to.

Follow these steps to create a schedule:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select **Add a schedule**.
1. In the **Add schedule** form, enter the schedule's name and description, and select a timezone.
1. Click **Add schedule**.

You now have an empty schedule with no rotations. This renders as an empty state, prompting you to
create [rotations](#rotations) for your schedule.

![Schedule Empty Grid](img/oncall_schedule_empty_grid_v13_10.png)

### Edit a schedule

Follow these steps to update a schedule:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select the **Pencil** icon on the top right of the
   schedule card, across from the schedule name.
1. In the **Edit schedule** form, edit the information you wish to update.
1. Click the **Edit schedule** button to save your changes.

If you change the schedule's time zone, GitLab automatically updates the rotation's restricted time
interval (if one is set) to the corresponding times in the new time zone.

### Delete a schedule

Follow these steps to delete a schedule:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select the **Trash Can** icon on the top right of the
   schedule card.
1. In the **Delete schedule** window, click the **Delete schedule** button.

## Rotations

Add rotations to an existing schedule to put your team members on-call.

Follow these steps to create a rotation:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select **Add a rotation** on the top right of the
   current schedule.
1. In the **Add rotation** form, enter the following:

   - **Name:** Your rotation's name.
   - **Participants:** The people you want in the rotation.
   - **Rotation length:** The rotation's duration.
   - **Starts on:** The date and time the rotation begins.
   - **Enable end date:** With the toggle set to on, you can select the date and time your rotation
     ends.
   - **Restrict to time intervals:** With the toggle set to on, you can restrict your rotation to the
     time period you select.

### Edit a rotation

Follow these steps to edit a rotation:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select the **Pencil** icon to the right of the title
   of the rotation that you want to update.
1. In the **Edit rotation** form, make the changes that you want.
1. Select the **Edit rotation** button.

### Delete a rotation

Follow these steps to delete a rotation:

1. Go to **Monitor > On-call Schedules** and select the **Trash Can** icon to the right of the
   title of the rotation that you want to delete.
1. In the **Delete rotation** window, select the **Delete rotation** button.

## View schedule rotations

You can view the on-call schedules of a single day or two weeks. To switch between these time
periods, select the **1 day** or **2 weeks** buttons on the schedule. Two weeks is the default view.

Hover over any rotation shift participants in the schedule to view their individual shift details.

![1 Day Grid View](img/oncall_schedule_day_grid_v13_10.png)

## Page an on-call responder

When an alert is created in a project, GitLab sends an email to the on-call responder(s) in the
on-call schedule for that project. If there is no schedule or no one on-call in that schedule at the
time the alert is triggered, no email is sent.

## Removal or deletion of on-call user

If an on-call user is removed from the project or group, or their account is deleted, the
confirmation modal displays the list of that user's on-call schedules. If the user's removal or
deletion is confirmed, GitLab recalculates the on-call rotation and sends an email to the project
owners and the rotation's participants.
