doc/administration/raketasks/project_import_export.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Project import/export administration **(FREE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/3050) in GitLab 8.9.
> - From GitLab 11.3, import/export can use object storage automatically.

GitLab provides Rake tasks relating to project import and export. For more information, see:

- [Project import/export documentation](../../user/project/settings/import_export.md).
- [Project import/export API](../../api/project_import_export.md).
- [Developer documentation: project import/export](../../development/import_export.md)

## Project import status

You can query an import through the [Project import/export API](../../api/project_import_export.md#import-status).
As described in the API documentation, the query may return an import error or exceptions.

## Import large projects

If you have a larger project, consider using a Rake task, as described in our [developer documentation](../../development/import_project.md#importing-via-a-rake-task).

## Import/export tasks

The GitLab import/export version can be checked by using the following command:

```shell
# Omnibus installations
sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:import_export:version

# Installations from source
bundle exec rake gitlab:import_export:version RAILS_ENV=production
```

The current list of DB tables to export can be listed by using the following command:

```shell
# Omnibus installations
sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:import_export:data

# Installations from source
bundle exec rake gitlab:import_export:data RAILS_ENV=production
```

Note the following:

- Importing is only possible if the version of the import and export GitLab instances are
  compatible as described in the [Version history](../../user/project/settings/import_export.md#version-history).
- The project import option must be enabled in
  application settings (`/admin/application_settings/general`) under **Import sources**, which is available
  under **Admin Area > Settings > Visibility and access controls**.
- The exports are stored in a temporary directory and are deleted every
  24 hours by a specific worker.

Commit message:

Update administration pages with new admin area access info
GitLab 14.0 includes an interface change that moves the UI
element to access the Admin Area to a new location;
from the top menu bar to within the Menu option on the top
menu bar.

This updates the administration documentation pages that describe
accessing the Admin Area to reflect the new interface change.

doc/administration/raketasks/project_import_export.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Distribution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Project import/export administration **(FREE SELF)**

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/3050) in GitLab 8.9.
> - From GitLab 11.3, import/export can use object storage automatically.

GitLab provides Rake tasks relating to project import and export. For more information, see:

- [Project import/export documentation](../../user/project/settings/import_export.md).
- [Project import/export API](../../api/project_import_export.md).
- [Developer documentation: project import/export](../../development/import_export.md)

## Project import status

You can query an import through the [Project import/export API](../../api/project_import_export.md#import-status).
As described in the API documentation, the query may return an import error or exceptions.

## Import large projects

If you have a larger project, consider using a Rake task, as described in our [developer documentation](../../development/import_project.md#importing-via-a-rake-task).

## Import/export tasks

The GitLab import/export version can be checked by using the following command:

```shell
# Omnibus installations
sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:import_export:version

# Installations from source
bundle exec rake gitlab:import_export:version RAILS_ENV=production
```

The current list of DB tables to export can be listed by using the following command:

```shell
# Omnibus installations
sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:import_export:data

# Installations from source
bundle exec rake gitlab:import_export:data RAILS_ENV=production
```

Note the following:

- Importing is only possible if the version of the import and export GitLab instances are
  compatible as described in the [Version history](../../user/project/settings/import_export.md#version-history).
- The project import option must be enabled:

  1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
  1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings > General**.
  1. Expand **Visibility and access controls**.
  1. Under **Import sources**, check the "Project export enabled" option.
  1. Select **Save changes**.

- The exports are stored in a temporary directory and are deleted every
  24 hours by a specific worker.
