doc/administration/geo/replication/remove_geo_site.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: howto
---

# Removing secondary Geo sites **(PREMIUM SELF)**

**Secondary** sites can be removed from the Geo cluster using the Geo administration page of the **primary** site. To remove a **secondary** site:

1. Go to **Admin Area > Geo** (`/admin/geo/nodes`).
1. Select the **Remove** button for the **secondary** site you want to remove.
1. Confirm by selecting **Remove** when the prompt appears.

Once removed from the Geo administration page, you must stop and uninstall the **secondary** site. For each node on your secondary Geo site:

1. Stop GitLab:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-ctl stop
   ```

1. Uninstall GitLab:

   ```shell
   # Stop gitlab and remove its supervision process
   sudo gitlab-ctl uninstall

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo dpkg --remove gitlab-ee

   # Redhat/Centos
   sudo rpm --erase gitlab-ee
   ```

Once GitLab has been uninstalled from each node on the **secondary** site, the replication slot must be dropped from the **primary** site's database as follows:

1. On the **primary** site's database node, start a PostgreSQL console session:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-psql
   ```

   NOTE:
   Using `gitlab-rails dbconsole` will not work, because managing replication slots requires superuser permissions.

1. Find the name of the relevant replication slot. This is the slot that is specified with `--slot-name` when running the replicate command: `gitlab-ctl replicate-geo-database`.

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM pg_replication_slots;
   ```

1. Remove the replication slot for the **secondary** site:

   ```sql
   SELECT pg_drop_replication_slot('<name_of_slot>');
   ```

Commit message:

Update administration pages with new admin area access info
GitLab 14.0 includes an interface change that moves the UI
element to access the Admin Area to a new location;
from the top menu bar to within the Menu option on the top
menu bar.

This updates the administration documentation pages that describe
accessing the Admin Area to reflect the new interface change.

doc/administration/geo/replication/remove_geo_site.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: howto
---

# Removing secondary Geo sites **(PREMIUM SELF)**

**Secondary** sites can be removed from the Geo cluster using the Geo administration page of the **primary** site. To remove a **secondary** site:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Geo > Nodes**.
1. Select the **Remove** button for the **secondary** site you want to remove.
1. Confirm by selecting **Remove** when the prompt appears.

Once removed from the Geo administration page, you must stop and uninstall the **secondary** site. For each node on your secondary Geo site:

1. Stop GitLab:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-ctl stop
   ```

1. Uninstall GitLab:

   ```shell
   # Stop gitlab and remove its supervision process
   sudo gitlab-ctl uninstall

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo dpkg --remove gitlab-ee

   # Redhat/Centos
   sudo rpm --erase gitlab-ee
   ```

Once GitLab has been uninstalled from each node on the **secondary** site, the replication slot must be dropped from the **primary** site's database as follows:

1. On the **primary** site's database node, start a PostgreSQL console session:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-psql
   ```

   NOTE:
   Using `gitlab-rails dbconsole` will not work, because managing replication slots requires superuser permissions.

1. Find the name of the relevant replication slot. This is the slot that is specified with `--slot-name` when running the replicate command: `gitlab-ctl replicate-geo-database`.

   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM pg_replication_slots;
   ```

1. Remove the replication slot for the **secondary** site:

   ```sql
   SELECT pg_drop_replication_slot('<name_of_slot>');
   ```
