doc/administration/geo/replication/tuning.md, before:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: howto
---

# Tuning Geo **(PREMIUM SELF)**

## Changing the sync/verification capacity values

In **Admin Area > Geo** (`/admin/geo/nodes`),
there are several variables that can be tuned to improve performance of Geo:

- Repository sync capacity
- File sync capacity
- Container repositories sync capacity
- Verification capacity

Increasing capacity values will increase the number of jobs that are scheduled.
However, this may not lead to more downloads in parallel unless the number of
available Sidekiq threads is also increased. For example, if repository sync
capacity is increased from 25 to 50, you may also want to increase the number
of Sidekiq threads from 25 to 50. See the
[Sidekiq concurrency documentation](../../operations/extra_sidekiq_processes.md#number-of-threads)
for more details.

## Repository re-verification

See
[Automatic background verification](../disaster_recovery/background_verification.md).

Commit message:

Update administration pages with new admin area access info
GitLab 14.0 includes an interface change that moves the UI
element to access the Admin Area to a new location;
from the top menu bar to within the Menu option on the top
menu bar.

This updates the administration documentation pages that describe
accessing the Admin Area to reflect the new interface change.

doc/administration/geo/replication/tuning.md, after:

---
stage: Enablement
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
type: howto
---

# Tuning Geo **(PREMIUM SELF)**

You can limit the number of concurrent operations the nodes can run
in the background.

## Changing the sync/verification concurrency values

On the **primary** site:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu >** **{admin}** **Admin**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Geo > Nodes**.
1. Select **Edit** of the secondary node you want to tune.
1. Under **Tuning settings**, there are several variables that can be tuned to
   improve the performance of Geo:

   - Repository synchronization concurrency limit
   - File synchronization concurrency limit
   - Container repositories synchronization concurrency limit
   - Verification concurrency limit

Increasing the concurrency values will increase the number of jobs that are scheduled.
However, this may not lead to more downloads in parallel unless the number of
available Sidekiq threads is also increased. For example, if repository synchronization
concurrency is increased from 25 to 50, you may also want to increase the number
of Sidekiq threads from 25 to 50. See the
[Sidekiq concurrency documentation](../../operations/extra_sidekiq_processes.md#number-of-threads)
for more details.

## Repository re-verification

See
[Automatic background verification](../disaster_recovery/background_verification.md).
