doc/user/project/service_desk.md, before:

# Service Desk **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/149) in [GitLab Premium 9.1](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2017/04/22/gitlab-9-1-released/#service-desk-eep).

## Overview

Service Desk is a module that allows your team to connect directly
with any external party through email right inside of GitLab; no external tools required.
An ongoing conversation right where your software is built ensures that user feedback ends
up directly where it's needed, helping you build the right features to solve your users'
real problems.

With Service Desk, you can provide efficient email support to your customers, who can now
email you bug reports, feature requests, or general feedback that will all end up in your
GitLab project as new issues. In turn, your team can respond straight from the project.

As Service Desk is built right into GitLab itself, the complexity and inefficiencies
of multiple tools and external integrations are eliminated, significantly shortening
the cycle time from feedback to software update.

For an overview, check the video demonstration on [GitLab Service Desk](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2017/05/09/demo-service-desk/).

## Use cases

For instance, let's assume you develop a game for iOS or Android.
The codebase is hosted in your GitLab instance, built and deployed
with GitLab CI.

Here's how Service Desk will work for you:

1. You'll provide a project-specific email address to your paying customers, who can email you directly from within the app
1. Each email they send creates an issue in the appropriate project
1. Your team members navigate to the Service Desk issue tracker, where they can see new support requests and respond inside associated issues
1. Your team communicates back and forth with the customer to understand the request
1. Your team starts working on implementing code to solve your customer's problem
1. When your team finishes the implementation, whereupon the merge request is merged and the issue is closed automatically
1. The customer will have been attended successfully via email, without having real access to your GitLab instance
1. Your team saved time by not having to leave GitLab (or setup any integrations) to follow up with your customer

## How it works

GitLab Service Desk is a simple way to allow people to create issues in your
GitLab instance without needing their own user account.

It provides a unique email address for end users to create issues in a project,
and replies can be sent either through the GitLab interface or by email. End
users will only see the thread through email.

## Configuring Service Desk

> **Note:**
Service Desk is enabled on GitLab.com. If you're a
[Silver subscriber](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/#gitlab-com),
you can skip the step 1 below; you only need to enable it per project.

1. [Set up incoming email](../../administration/incoming_email.md#set-it-up) for the GitLab instance. This must
   support [email sub-addressing](../../administration/incoming_email.md#email-sub-addressing).
1. Navigate to your project's **Settings** and scroll down to the **Service Desk**
   section.
1. If you have the correct access and an Premium license,
   you will see an option to set up Service Desk:

   ![Activate Service Desk option](img/service_desk_disabled.png)

1. Checking that box will enable Service Desk for the project, and show a
   unique email address to email issues to the project. These issues will be
   [confidential](issues/confidential_issues.md), so they will only be visible to project members.

   **Warning**: this email address can be used by anyone to create an issue on
   this project, whether or not they have access to your GitLab instance.
   We recommend **putting this behind an alias** so that it can be changed if
   needed, and **[enabling Akismet](../../integration/akismet.md)** on your GitLab instance to add spam
   checking to this service.  Unblocked email spam would result in many spam
   issues being created, and may disrupt your GitLab service.

   ![Service Desk enabled](img/service_desk_enabled.png)

   _In GitLab 11.7, we updated the format of the generated email address.
   However the older format is still supported, allowing existing aliases
   or contacts to continue working._

1. Service Desk is now enabled for this project! You should be able to access it from your project's navigation **Issue submenu**:

   ![Service Desk Navigation Item](img/service_desk_nav_item.png)

## Using Service Desk

### As an end user (issue creator)

To create a Service Desk issue, an end user doesn't need to know anything about
the GitLab instance. They just send an email to the address they are given, and
receive an email back confirming receipt:

![Service Desk enabled](img/service_desk_confirmation_email.png)

This also gives the end user an option to unsubscribe.

If they don't choose to unsubscribe, then any new comments added to the issue
will be sent as emails:

![Service Desk reply email](img/service_desk_reply.png)

And any responses they send will be displayed in the issue itself.

### As a responder to the issue

For responders to the issue, everything works as usual. They'll see a familiar looking
issue tracker, where they can see issues created via customer support requests and
filter and interact with them just like other GitLab issues.

![Service Desk Issue tracker](img/service_desk_issue_tracker.png)

Messages from the end user will show as coming from the special Support Bot user, but apart from that,
you can read and write comments as you normally do:

![Service Desk issue thread](img/service_desk_thread.png)

Note that:

- The project's visibility (private, internal, public) does not affect Service Desk.
- The path to the project, including its group or namespace, will be shown on emails.

### Support Bot user

Behind the scenes, Service Desk works by the special Support Bot user creating issues. This user
does not count toward the license limit count.

Commit message:

Add user ability to append template to incoming service desk issues
- Added dropdown to Service Desk section in repository settings to allow
  the user to select a template from `.gitlab/issue_templates` to append
  to all Service Desk issues
- Removed ServiceDeskStore to make Vue code more idiomatic
- Updated code to use gitlab-ui components
- Migrated from karma to jest
- Updated Service Desk documentation

doc/user/project/service_desk.md, after:

# Service Desk **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/149) in [GitLab Premium 9.1](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2017/04/22/gitlab-9-1-released/#service-desk-eep).

## Overview

Service Desk is a module that allows your team to connect directly
with any external party through email right inside of GitLab; no external tools required.
An ongoing conversation right where your software is built ensures that user feedback ends
up directly where it's needed, helping you build the right features to solve your users'
real problems.

With Service Desk, you can provide efficient email support to your customers, who can now
email you bug reports, feature requests, or general feedback that will all end up in your
GitLab project as new issues. In turn, your team can respond straight from the project.

As Service Desk is built right into GitLab itself, the complexity and inefficiencies
of multiple tools and external integrations are eliminated, significantly shortening
the cycle time from feedback to software update.

For an overview, check the video demonstration on [GitLab Service Desk](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2017/05/09/demo-service-desk/).

## Use cases

For instance, let's assume you develop a game for iOS or Android.
The codebase is hosted in your GitLab instance, built and deployed
with GitLab CI.

Here's how Service Desk will work for you:

1. You'll provide a project-specific email address to your paying customers, who can email you directly from within the app
1. Each email they send creates an issue in the appropriate project
1. Your team members navigate to the Service Desk issue tracker, where they can see new support requests and respond inside associated issues
1. Your team communicates back and forth with the customer to understand the request
1. Your team starts working on implementing code to solve your customer's problem
1. When your team finishes the implementation, whereupon the merge request is merged and the issue is closed automatically
1. The customer will have been attended successfully via email, without having real access to your GitLab instance
1. Your team saved time by not having to leave GitLab (or setup any integrations) to follow up with your customer

## How it works

GitLab Service Desk is a simple way to allow people to create issues in your
GitLab instance without needing their own user account.

It provides a unique email address for end users to create issues in a project,
and replies can be sent either through the GitLab interface or by email. End
users will only see the thread through email.

## Configuring Service Desk

> **Note:**
Service Desk is enabled on GitLab.com. If you're a
[Silver subscriber](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/#gitlab-com),
you can skip the step 1 below; you only need to enable it per project.

1. [Set up incoming email](../../administration/incoming_email.md#set-it-up) for the GitLab instance. This must
   support [email sub-addressing](../../administration/incoming_email.md#email-sub-addressing).
1. Navigate to your project's **Settings** and scroll down to the **Service Desk**
   section.
1. If you have the correct access and a Premium license,
   you will see an option to set up Service Desk:

   ![Activate Service Desk option](img/service_desk_disabled.png)

1. Checking that box will enable Service Desk for the project, and show a
   unique email address to email issues to the project. These issues will be
   [confidential](issues/confidential_issues.md), so they will only be visible to project members.

   **Warning**: this email address can be used by anyone to create an issue on
   this project, whether or not they have access to your GitLab instance.
   We recommend **putting this behind an alias** so that it can be changed if
   needed, and **[enabling Akismet](../../integration/akismet.md)** on your GitLab instance to add spam
   checking to this service.  Unblocked email spam would result in many spam
   issues being created, and may disrupt your GitLab service.

   ![Service Desk enabled](img/service_desk_enabled.png)

   _In GitLab 11.7, we updated the format of the generated email address.
   However the older format is still supported, allowing existing aliases
   or contacts to continue working._

1. If you have [templates](description_templates.md) in your repository, then you can optionally
   select one of these templates from the dropdown to append it to all Service Desk issues.

1. Service Desk is now enabled for this project! You should be able to access it from your project's navigation **Issue submenu**:

   ![Service Desk Navigation Item](img/service_desk_nav_item.png)

## Using Service Desk

### As an end user (issue creator)

To create a Service Desk issue, an end user doesn't need to know anything about
the GitLab instance. They just send an email to the address they are given, and
receive an email back confirming receipt:

![Service Desk enabled](img/service_desk_confirmation_email.png)

This also gives the end user an option to unsubscribe.

If they don't choose to unsubscribe, then any new comments added to the issue
will be sent as emails:

![Service Desk reply email](img/service_desk_reply.png)

And any responses they send will be displayed in the issue itself.

### As a responder to the issue

For responders to the issue, everything works as usual. They'll see a familiar looking
issue tracker, where they can see issues created via customer support requests and
filter and interact with them just like other GitLab issues.

![Service Desk Issue tracker](img/service_desk_issue_tracker.png)

Messages from the end user will show as coming from the special Support Bot user, but apart from that,
you can read and write comments as you normally do:

![Service Desk issue thread](img/service_desk_thread.png)

Note that:

- The project's visibility (private, internal, public) does not affect Service Desk.
- The path to the project, including its group or namespace, will be shown on emails.

### Support Bot user

Behind the scenes, Service Desk works by the special Support Bot user creating issues. This user
does not count toward the license limit count.
